 = Homarus gammarus =

 Homarus gammarus , known as the European lobster or common lobster , is a species of clawed lobster from the eastern Atlantic Ocean , Mediterranean Sea and parts of the Black Sea .

 It is closely related to the American lobster , H. americanus .

 It may grow to a length of 60 cm ( 24 in ) and a mass of 6 kilograms ( 13 lb ) , and bears a conspicuous pair of claws .

 Mating occurs in the summer , producing eggs which are carried by the females for up to a year before hatching into planktonic larvae .

 Homarus gammarus is a highly esteemed food , and is widely caught using lobster pots , mostly around the British Isles .

 = = Description = =

 Like other crustaceans , lobsters have a hard exoskeleton which they must shed in order to grow , in a process called ecdysis ( moulting ) .

 The first pair of pereiopods is armed with a large , asymmetrical pair of claws .

 The exoskeleton is generally blue above , with spots that coalesce , and yellow below .

 The red colour associated with lobsters only appears after cooking .

 The two species are very similar , and can be crossed artificially , although hybrids are unlikely to occur in the wild since their ranges do not overlap .

 The two species can be distinguished by a number of characteristics :

 The rostrum of H. americanus bears one or more spines on the underside , which are lacking in H. gammarus .

 The spines on the claws of H. americanus are red or red @-@ tipped , while those of H. gammarus are white or white @-@ tipped .

 The underside of the claw of H. americanus is orange or red , while that of H. gammarus is creamy white or very pale red .

 = = Life cycle = =

 Female

 H. gammarus reach sexual maturity when they have grown to a carapace length of 80 – 85 millimetres ( 3 @.@ 1 – 3 @.@ 3 in ) , whereas males mature at a slightly smaller size .

 Mating typically occurs in summer between a recently moulted female , whose shell is therefore soft , and a hard @-@ shelled male .

 The female carries the eggs for up to 12 months , depending on the temperature , attached to her pleopods .

 Females carrying eggs are said to be " berried " and can be found throughout the year .

 The eggs hatch at night , and the larvae swim to the water surface where they drift with the ocean currents , preying on zooplankton .

 This stage involves three moults and lasts for 15 – 35 days .

 After the third moult , the juvenile takes on a form closer to the adult , and adopts a benthic lifestyle .

 The juveniles are rarely seen in the wild , and are poorly known , although they are known to be capable of digging extensive burrows .

 It is estimated that only 1 larva in every 20 @ , @ 000 survives to the benthic phase .

 When they reach a carapace length of 15 mm ( 0 @.@ 59 in ) , the juveniles leave their burrows and start their adult lives .

 = = Distribution = =

 Homarus gammarus is found across the north @-@ eastern Atlantic Ocean from northern Norway to the Azores and Morocco , not including the Baltic Sea .

 The northernmost populations are found in the Norwegian fjords Tysfjorden and Nordfolda , inside the Arctic Circle .

 The species can be divided into four genetically distinct populations , one widespread population , and three which have diverged due to small effective population sizes , possibly due to adaptation to the local environment .

 The populations in the Mediterranean Sea are distinct from those in the Atlantic Ocean .

 The last distinct population is found in the Netherlands : samples from the Oosterschelde were distinct from those collected in the North Sea or English Channel .

 Attempts have been made to introduce H. gammarus to New Zealand , alongside other European species such as the edible crab , Cancer pagurus .

 Between 1904 and 1914 , one million lobster larvae were released from hatcheries in Dunedin , but the species did not become established there .

 = = Ecology = =

 Adult H. gammarus live on the continental shelf at depths of 0 – 150 metres ( 0 – 492 ft ) , although not normally deeper than 50 m ( 160 ft ) .

 They prefer hard substrates , such as rocks or hard mud , and live in holes or crevices , emerging at night to feed .

 The diet of H. gammarus mostly consists of other benthic invertebrates .

 These include crabs , molluscs , sea urchins , starfish and polychaete worms .

 The three clawed lobster species Homarus gammarus , H. americanus and Nephrops norvegicus are hosts to the three known species of the animal phylum Cycliophora ; the species on H. gammarus has not been described .

 Homarus gammarus is susceptible to the disease gaffkaemia , caused by the bacterium Aerococcus viridans .

 = = Human consumption = =

 It may fetch very high prices and may be sold fresh , frozen , canned or powdered .

 Both the claws and the abdomen of H. gammarus contain " excellent " white meat , and most of the contents of the cephalothorax are edible .

 The exceptions are the gastric mill and the " sand vein " ( gut ) .

 The price of H. gammarus is up to three times higher than that of H. americanus , and the European species is considered to have a better flavour .

 Lobsters are mostly fished using lobster pots , although lines baited with octopus or cuttlefish sometimes succeed in tempting them out , to allow them to be caught in a net or by hand .

 The minimum landing size for H. gammarus is a carapace length of 87 mm ( 3 @.@ 4 in ) .

 = = Taxonomic history = =

 That name was Cancer gammarus , since Linnaeus ' concept of the genus Cancer at that time included all large crustaceans .

 The type specimen of Homarus gammarus was a lectotype selected by Lipke Holthuis in 1974 .

 = Frank Headlam =

 Born and educated in Tasmania , he joined the RAAF as an air cadet in January 1934 .

 He specialised in flying instruction and navigation before the outbreak of World War II .

 In April 1941 , he became commanding officer of No. 2 Squadron , which operated Lockheed Hudsons .

 The squadron was deployed to Dutch Timor in December , and saw action against Japanese forces in the South West Pacific .

 After returning to Australia in February 1942 , Headlam held staff appointments and training commands , finishing the war a group captain .

 Headlam served as Officer Commanding North @-@ Western Area in 1946 , and as Director of Training from 1947 to 1950 .

 He twice served as acting Air Member for Personnel , in 1957 and 1959 – 60 , receiving appointment as a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1958 .

 He was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1965 .

 Following a posting to London as Head of the Australian Joint Services Staff from 1968 to 1971 , he retired from the Air Force and died in Melbourne five years later .

 = = Early career = =

 The son of farmers Malcolm and Hilda Headlam , Frank Headlam was born on 15 July 1914 in Launceston , Tasmania .

 He was schooled at Clemes College , Hobart , and matriculated in 1932 .

 Against the wishes of his parents he joined the Royal Australian Air Force ( RAAF ) as an air cadet on 16 January 1934 .

 He underwent flying instruction with No. 1 Flying Training School ( FTS ) at RAAF Point Cook , Victoria , and was commissioned as a pilot officer on 1 January 1935 .

 After completing a conversion course , Headlam was assigned to the Seaplane Squadron at Point Cook .

 No larger than a flight according to the official history of the pre @-@ war RAAF , Seaplane Squadron was part of No. 1 FTS and operated Supermarine Southampton flying boats and de Havilland Gipsy Moth floatplanes , among other types .

 Headlam completed a flying instructors course in July 1936 and joined the staff of No. 1 FTS .

 He was promoted to flight lieutenant on 1 March 1937 .

 Commencing in July 1938 , he was one of six students to take part in the RAAF 's first Long Specialist Navigation Course , run by Flight Lieutenants Bill Garing and Alister Murdoch at Point Cook .

 The following month , Headlam led the three Ansons on a six @-@ day journey back and forth over Central Australia .

 He subsequently passed the navigation course with a special distinction .

 He served initially with No. 2 Squadron , before transferring to No. 1 Squadron on 29 August .

 Both units operated Ansons .

 = = World War II = =

 Following the outbreak of World War II , No. 1 Squadron was engaged in convoy escort and maritime reconnaissance duties off south @-@ eastern Australia .

 Headlam continued to serve with the squadron as a flight commander until 15 January 1940 , when he was assigned to Headquarters Laverton as the station navigation officer .

 On 27 March he was posted to the staff of RAAF Headquarters , Melbourne .

 He was promoted to squadron leader on 1 June 1940 .

 Two weeks later he married Katherine Bridge at St Paul 's Anglican Church in Frankston ; the couple would have a son and a daughter .

 The following day , aware that Australia was now at war in the Pacific , one of the Penfui @-@ based Hudsons attacked the Japanese pearler Nanyo Maru , which was suspected of being a radio ship , and forced it aground .

 During January 1942 , No. 2 Squadron 's aircraft were dispersed at Penfui , Boeroe Island , and Darwin .

 The Penfui detachment attacked Japanese shipping taking part in the invasion of Celebes .

 The intact Hudsons were withdrawn to Darwin but Headlam and his staff remained at Penfui to enable the base to be used by aircraft during reconnaissance missions from Australia .

 On 18 February , Headlam was ordered to evacuate all his personnel except a small party to demolish the airfield with assistance from Sparrow Force .

 He returned to Darwin the following day , just as the city experienced its first raid by the Japanese .

 On 20 July 1943 , Headlam took command of No. 2 Air Observer School ( AOS ) , also operating Ansons , at Mount Gambier , South Australia .

 He was promoted to group captain on 1 December 1943 , and was appointed the inaugural commanding officer of No. 3 AOS , operating Ansons and Fairey Battles out of Port Pirie , on 9 December .

 He was appointed senior administrative staff officer at North @-@ Western Area Command on 12 January 1945 .

 = = Post @-@ war career = =

 Headlam became Officer Commanding North @-@ Western Area in January 1946 .

 Posted to Britain at the end of the year , he attended the Royal Air Force Staff College , Andover , and served with RAAF Overseas Headquarters , London .

 In November 1950 , Headlam was appointed to take over command of No. 90 ( Composite ) Wing from Group Captain Paddy Heffernan .

 Headquartered at RAF Changi , Singapore , No. 90 Wing controlled RAAF units operating during the Malayan Emergency : No. 1 ( Bomber ) Squadron , flying Avro Lincolns , and No. 38 ( Transport ) Squadron , flying Douglas C @-@ 47 Dakotas .

 The Lincolns conducted area bombing missions over communist @-@ held territory , as well as strikes against pinpoint targets .

 The Dakotas were tasked with courier flights , VIP transport and medical evacuations across South East Asia , and in Malaya with airlifting troops and cargo , dropping supplies to friendly forces and despatching propaganda leaflets .

 In August 1951 he was named commander of RAF Tengah , Singapore , in addition to his post as commanding officer of No. 90 Wing .

 Headlam handed over command of No. 90 Wing in December 1951 .

 On 19 February 1952 , Headlam became senior air staff officer ( SASO ) at Eastern Area Command in Penrith , New South Wales .

 During his term as SASO , the RAAF began re @-@ equipping with English Electric Canberra jet bombers and CAC Sabre jet fighters .

 The Air Force also underwent a major organisational change , as it transitioned from a geographically based command @-@ and @-@ control system to one based on function , resulting in the establishment of Home ( operational ) , Training , and Maintenance Commands .

 Eastern Area Command , considered a de facto operational headquarters owing to the preponderance of combat units under its control , was reorganised as Home Command in October 1953 .

 He was promoted to acting air commodore in May .

 His appointment as aide @-@ de @-@ camp to Queen Elizabeth II was announced on 7 October 1954 .

 Headlam was promoted to substantive air commodore on 1 January 1955 .

 In November he was posted to RAAF Overseas Headquarters , London , and the following year undertook studies at the Imperial Defence College .

 In this role Headlam occupied a seat on the Air Board , the service 's controlling body that comprised its senior officers and was chaired by the Chief of the Air Staff .

 Headlam 's other positions at the Department of Air included Air Commodore Plans from October 1957 to January 1959 , and Director General Plans and Policy from January to August 1959 .

 The latter assignment put him in charge of the RAAF 's Directorate of Intelligence .

 Headlam was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire ( CBE ) in the 1958 Queen 's Birthday Honours , gazetted on 3 June .

 In May 1960 he became acting Deputy Chief of the Air Staff .

 On 30 January 1961 , Headlam joined the staff of Operational Command ( OPCOM ) , the successor organisation to Home Command , responsible for the direction of RAAF operational units .

 He took over as Air Officer Commanding ( AOC ) OPCOM from Air Vice Marshal Val Hancock in April .

 Headlam was promoted to air vice marshal on 29 May .

 On 17 July 1962 , he was posted to RAAF Base Butterworth , Malaya , and took up the appointment of AOC No. 224 Group RAF in Singapore one week later .

 He was succeeded as AOC OPCOM by Air Vice Marshal Alister Murdoch .

 Returning to Australia , Headlam became Deputy Chief of the Air Staff ( DCAS ) on 26 January 1965 .

 He was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath ( CB ) " in recognition of distinguished service in the Borneo Territories " on 22 June .

 His tenure as DCAS coincided with the most significant rearmament program the Air Force had undertaken since World War II , and with manpower shortages stemming from this expansion and from Australia 's increasing involvement in the security of South East Asia .

 Headlam succeeded Air Vice Marshal Douglas Candy as AOC Support Command , Melbourne , on 8 August 1966 .

 Support Command had been formed in 1959 , by merging the RAAF 's former Training and Maintenance Commands .

 On 1 January 1968 , Headlam was posted to London as Head of the Australian Joint Services Staff .

 He served as an Extra Gentleman Usher to the Queen from 17 November 1970 to 5 June 1971 .

 = = Retirement = =

 Returning to Australia in June 1971 , Headlam took resettlement leave before retiring from the Air Force on 3 August .

 He made his home in Melbourne , where he died aged 62 on 23 December 1976 , after a lengthy battle with cancer .

 Survived by his children and his second wife , he was given a private funeral and cremated at Springvale Crematorium .

 = M @-@ 82 ( Michigan highway ) =

 The section between Newaygo and Howard City travels through Fremont and along the southern edge of Manistee National Forest .

 The Lower Peninsula routing has been in use since the 1920s .

 Various extensions and truncations have shifted the terminus as far west as New Era or Hesperia in the past .

 The current route was finalized in the late 1970s

 = = Route description = =

 M @-@ 82 begins at a junction with M @-@ 120 and B @-@ 96 west of Fremont .

 This junction is at a tripoint of county lines .

 M @-@ 120 forms the north – south Newaygo – Oceana and Newaygo – Muskegon county lines .

 B @-@ 96 , which forms the east – west Oceana – Muskegon county line runs due west of the intersection .

 M @-@ 82 exits the intersection to the east .

 The highway runs along 48th Street through rural farms into the community of Fremont .

 The road , now called Main Street , passes through the downtown area and M @-@ 82 turns south along Stewart Avenue out of town .

 The highway rounds a curve and transitions to 72nd Street running eastward through more farm land .

 As the trunkline approaches Newaygo , the terrain becomes more wooded near the Muskegon River .

 M @-@ 82 follows Fremont Street east to a junction with M @-@ 37 .

 The two highways merge and run concurrently over the river and into downtown on State Street .

 The east end of M @-@ 82 is at exit 118 on US 131 / M @-@ 46 west of Howard City .

 These levels are expressed in terms of a metric called average annual daily traffic ( AADT ) , which is a calculation of the traffic along a segment of road for any average day of the year .

 In 2009 , the department 's measurements indicated that a segment of M @-@ 82 west of Fremont had the peak volume for the highway at 16 @ , @ 532 vehicles daily .

 The traffic nadir was 4 @ , @ 018 vehicles east of Newaygo .

 In addition , MDOT has not had any section of the highway listed on the National Highway System , a network of roads important to the country 's economy , defense , and mobility .

 = = History = =

 = = = Previous designation = = =

 The trunkline started at M @-@ 25 and ran north of Newberry to the vicinity of Eight Mile Corner .

 It was later replaced by M @-@ 48 in 1926 .

 The current M @-@ 82 dates back to 1926 .

 It ran from US 31 in Hart to the northern junction of US 131 and M @-@ 46 in Howard City .

 The highway was routed through Ferry , Hesperia and Fremont , replacing M @-@ 41 .

 In late 1936 , M @-@ 46 was extended along the section between Newaygo and Howard City , forming a M @-@ 46 / M @-@ 82 concurrency to fill a gap in the M @-@ 46 routing .

 This concurrent section became just M @-@ 46 in 1938 , shortening M @-@ 82 back to the northern M @-@ 37 junction in Newaygo .

 The highway was moved to a new alignment west of Ferry in late 1947 or early 1948 .

 Instead of heading northwesterly to Hart , it was continued west to end in Shelby .

 Two realignments in 1963 and 1964 rerouted the western end of the highway again .

 This time it was realigned to run from Hesperia to New Era , bypassing Ferry .

 A larger change around 1969 reconfigured the highway designations in Oceana County .

 M @-@ 20 replaced M @-@ 82 west of Hesperia , to end at New Era instead of Muskegon .

 The new M @-@ 120 designation replaced M @-@ 20 south of Hesperia .

 M @-@ 82 now ran from Hesperia to Newaygo only .

 The length of the highway was increased in 1973 when the eastern end was moved back to Howard City .

 The last change came in 1978 when the concurrency with M @-@ 120 was eliminated in favor of M @-@ 120 .

 The M @-@ 82 designation was truncated at this time to the junction west of Fremont , resulting in the current highway routing .

 = = Major intersections = =

 = Shikamaru Nara =

 Shikamaru Nara ( 奈良 シカマル , Nara Shikamaru ) is a fictional character in the Naruto manga and anime series created by Masashi Kishimoto .

 He is a member of Team 10 , a group of ninja consisting of himself , Choji Akimichi , Ino Yamanaka , and team leader Asuma Sarutobi .

 Shikamaru is portrayed as a lazy character , unwilling to apply his prodigious intelligence ;

 Kishimoto has noted that he likes Shikamaru due to his easygoing nature .

 Outside of the Naruto anime and manga , Shikamaru has appeared in four of the feature films in the series , as well as several other media relating to the series , including video games and original video animations .

 Numerous anime and manga publications have commented on Shikamaru 's character .

 Many reviewers commented on his laziness and intelligence , and noted his transformation into a leader ; Anime News Network celebrated Shikamaru 's emergence as " an unlikely hero " in the Naruto storyline .

 Merchandise based on Shikamaru has been released , including action figures , key chains , and patches .

 = = Creation and conception = =

 Masashi Kishimoto has noted that he likes Shikamaru due to his easygoing nature despite being a genius , and contrasted him against Sasuke Uchiha 's intelligent but abrasive personality .

 Kishimoto also comically remarked that he would marry Shikamaru if he were a girl , noting that Shikamaru would likely be successful in life .

 When designing Shikamaru 's Part II appearance , Kishimoto wanted to give Shikamaru a unique appearance despite drawing him with a vest that several other ninja wear in the series .

 As a result , he drew his forehead protector on his arm in order to not obscure his hair .

 = = Appearances = =

 = = = In Naruto = = =

 He is part of Team 10 alongside Choji Akimichi and Ino Yamanaka .

 He is a highly unenthusiastic person , and he attempts to go through life with minimum effort .

 As the series progresses , Shikamaru becomes able to manipulate his shadow in new ways .

 Shikamaru approaches the exams with a sense of apathy ; when he battles the Sunagakure ninja Temari , he defeats her but forfeits his match to her , due to his chakra being low .

 As a Chunin , Shikamaru is appointed the leader of a team to prevent Sasuke Uchiha from defecting to the village of Otogakure .

 Although Shikamaru 's team manages to defeat the Otogakure ninja barring their way , Sasuke manages to escape .

 In Part II of the series , Shikamaru is assigned the task of locating two members of the criminal organization Akatsuki .

 While his team manages to find their targets , the immortal Akatsuki member Hidan kills Asuma Sarutobi during the course of the battle despite Shikamaru 's best efforts .

 After Asuma 's funeral , Shikamaru sets out with the surviving members of Team 10 to avenge their mentor with the aid of Kakashi Hatake .

 As the other deal with Hidan 's partner Kakuzu , Shikamaru avenges Asuma by defeating Hidan and making sure the Akatsuki member 's body is never found .

 Following the fight , Shikamaru vows to protect Kurenai Yuhi and Asuma 's newborn daughter .

 He is later assigned to the Fourth Division alongside Temari and Chōji .

 He is named a proxy general under Gaara .

 He is also present in the third original video animation , in which he participates in a tournament .

 Shikamaru is a playable character in nearly all Naruto video games , including the Clash of Ninja series and the Ultimate Ninja series .

 In some games , he utilizes variations of his Shadow Imitation Technique not seen in the anime or manga .

 Naruto Shippūden : Gekitō Ninja Taisen !

 EX 2 marks the first appearance of Shikamaru in his Part II appearance in a video game .

 A light novel titled Shikamaru Hiden : A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness , written by Takashi Yano and illustrated by Kishimoto , stars Shikamaru as the main character and narrator .

 The novel is set two years after the Fourth Ninja War , focusing on Shikamaru 's assignment as organizer of the newly formed Shinobi Union to capture a rogue ninja who rules over the distant Land of Silence and attempts to establish a new world order ruled by the common people .

 It also explores his growing relationship with Temari , culminating in him struggling to name his child with her , years after the end of the novel .

 = = Reception = =

 The last such poll was in 2011 , in which Shikamaru was in ninth place , behind Sasori and ahead of Hinata .

 CyberConnect2 CEO

 Hiroshi Matsuyama referred to Shikamaru as one of his favorite characters from Naruto .

 Several publications for manga , anime , video games , and other related media have commented on Shikamaru 's character .

 In a review of episode 110 , IGN praised how Shikamaru managed to transcend his lazy nature in order to take on the mantle of a leader when assigned to lead a team in order to retrieve Sasuke Uchiha and agreed that the decision to make him Chunin was fair .

 Anime News Network also commented on this development , calling Shikamaru 's emergence as " an unlikely hero " one of the highlights of the arc .

 Mania Entertainment 's Justin Rich celebrated his " sheer intellect " , calling him " one of the most fascinating characters in the series " and " one of the few truly brilliant fighters in shōnen anime " . Dani Moure , another reviewer from the same site , noted about his battle with Temari during the Chunin Exams that it was " one of the better fights involving the supporting players " .

 = Meridian , Mississippi =

 Key Field is named after brothers Fred and Al Key , who set a world endurance flight record in 1935 .

 Meridian was home to two Carnegie libraries , one for whites and one for African Americans .

 The Carnegie Branch Library , now demolished , was one of a number of Carnegie libraries built for blacks in the Southern United States during the segregation era .

 The city has been selected as the future location of the Mississippi Arts and Entertainment Center ( MAEC ) .

 Jimmie Rodgers , the " Father of Country Music " , was born in Meridian .

 Highland Park houses a museum which displays memorabilia of his life and career , as well as railroad equipment from the steam @-@ engine era .

 Other notable natives include Miss America 1986 Susan Akin , James Chaney – an activist who was killed in the Mississippi civil rights workers murders in 1964 , and Hartley Peavey , founder of Peavey Electronics headquartered in Meridian .

 = = History = =

 Previously inhabited by the Choctaw Native Americans , the area now called Meridian was obtained by the United States under the terms of the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek in 1830 during the period of Indian Removal .

 After the treaty was ratified , European @-@ American settlers began to move into the area .

 Most of McLemore 's land was bought in 1853 by Lewis A. Ragsdale , a lawyer from Alabama .

 John T. Ball , a merchant from Kemper County , bought the remaining 80 acres ( 0 @.@ 32 km2 ) .

 Ragsdale and Ball , now known as the founders of the city , began laying out lots for new development on their respective land sections .

 There was much competition over the proposed name of the settlement .

 Eventually the continued development of the railroads led to an influx of railroad workers who overruled the others in the city and left " Meridian " on the station permanently .

 The town was officially incorporated as Meridian on February 10 , 1860 .

 Its strategic position at the railroad junction led to the Confederate construction of several military installations to support the war .

 Race relations remained tense during the Reconstruction era , with the riot of 1871 following a fire that damaged many businesses .

 The town boomed in the aftermath of the Civil War , and experienced its " Golden Age " from 1880 to 1910 .

 The railroads in the area provided for a means of transportation and an influx of industries , which caused a population boom .

 As the population rose , commercial activity increased in the downtown area .

 The federal courthouse was built in 1933 as a WPA project .

 After a brief slowdown of the economy at the end of the Depression , the country entered World War II , which renewed the importance of railroads .

 The rails were essential to transport gasoline and scrap metal to build military vehicles , so Meridian became the region 's rail center again .

 This renewed prosperity continued until the 1950s , when the automobile and Interstate Highway System became more popular than passenger rails .

 The decline of the railroad industry caused significant job losses , resulting in a population decline as workers left for other areas .

 During the American Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s , Meridian was home to a Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) office and several other activist organizations .

 Whites in the area resented the activism , and racial tension often resulted in violence .

 In June 1964 , Chaney , Schwerner , and Goodman went to Neshoba County , Mississippi , to meet with members of a black church that had been bombed and burned .

 The three disappeared that night on their way back to Meridian .

 Following a massive FBI investigation , their murdered bodies were found two months later , buried in an earthen dam .

 Seven Klansmen , including a deputy sheriff , were convicted in the federal courthouse in Meridian of " depriving the victims of their civil rights " and three were acquitted in the Mississippi civil rights workers murders trial .

 In 2005 , the case was reopened by the state , which brought charges in the case for the first time .

 Edgar Ray Killen was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to 60 years in prison .

 Meridian later honored Chaney by renaming a portion of 49th Avenue after him and holding an annual memorial service .

 After strip commercial interests began to move downtown , the city worked to designate several areas as historic districts in the 1970s and 80s to preserve the architectural character of the city .

 The Meridian Historic Districts and Landmarks Commission was created in 1979 , and the Meridian Main Street program was founded in 1985 .

 Meridian Main Street organized several projects to revitalize downtown , including the construction of a new Amtrak Station in 1997 based on the design of the historic train station used during Meridian 's Golden Age ; it had been demolished .

 After ownership of the Meridian Main Street was transferred to the Alliance for Downtown Meridian in late 2007 , the two organizations , along with the Meridian Downtown Association , spearheaded the downtown revitalization effort .

 The Alliance serves as an umbrella organization , allowing the other two organizations to use the its support staff and housing , and in turn the Alliance serves as a liaison between the organizations .

 Plans were underway to renovate the Threefoot Building , but newly elected Mayor Cheri Barry killed the plans in early 2010 .

 The Meridian Downtown Association is primarily focused on increasing foot traffic downtown by organizing special events , and the Meridian Main Street program supports existing businesses downtown .

 = = = Hotels = = =

 Given Meridian 's site as a railroad junction , its travelers have attracted the development of many hotels .

 With the growth of the railroads and the construction of the original Union Station in 1906 , many hotels were constructed for passengers and workers .

 The Elmira Hotel was constructed in 1905 , and the Terminal Hotel was constructed in 1910 .

 Hotel Meridian was constructed in 1907 , and Union Hotel was built in 1908 .

 Union Hotel was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979 , and both Hotel Meridian and Grand Avenue Hotel were listed as contributing properties to the Meridian Urban Center Historic District .

 As the city grew , the hotels reflected ambitions of the strong economy , as evidenced by the eleven @-@ story skyscraper Lamar Hotel built in 1927 .

 Listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979 , the Lamar Hotel was adapted for use as a county annex building .

 In 1988 it was listed as a Mississippi Landmark .

 The E.F. Young Hotel was built in 1931 .

 As the city suburbs developed in the 1960s and ' 70s , most hotels moved outside of downtown .

 Rehabilitation of the Riley Center in 2006 has increased demand and a push for a new downtown hotel .

 The Threefoot Building has been proposed for redevelopment for this purpose , but restoration efforts stalled with a change in city administrations .

 The Threefoot Preservation Society was formed in 2013 to raise public awareness and support for the building 's renovation , featuring tours of the first floor and anniversary events .

 Meridian has nine historic districts that are listed on the National Register of Historic Places .

 The Meridian Downtown Historic District is a combination of two older districts , the Meridian Urban Center Historic District and the Union Station Historic District .

 The districts are :

 1 East End Historic District — roughly bounded by 18th

 St , 11th Ave , 14th St , 14th Ave , 5th St , and 17th Ave .

 2 Highlands Historic District — roughly bounded by 15th St , 34th Ave , 19th St , and 36th Ave .

 3 Meridian Downtown Historic District — runs from the former Gulf , Mobile and Ohio Railroad north to 6th St between 18th and 26th Ave , excluding Ragsdale Survey Block 71 .

 6 Merrehope Historic District — roughly bounded by 33rd Ave , 30th Ave , 14th St , and 8th St.

 7 Mid @-@ Town Historic District — roughly bounded by 23rd Ave , 15th St , 28th Ave , and 22nd St.

 8 Poplar Springs Road Historic District — roughly bounded by 29th

 St , 23rd Ave , 22nd St , and 29th Ave .

 9 West End Historic District — roughly bounded by 7th St , 28th Ave , Shearer 's Branch , and 5th St.

 = = Government and infrastructure = =

 Meridian has operated under the mayor @-@ council or " strong mayor " form of government since 1985 .

 A mayor is elected every four years by the population at @-@ large .

 The five members of the city council are elected every four years from each of the city 's five wards , considered single @-@ member districts .

 The mayor , the chief executive officer of the city , is responsible for administering and leading the day @-@ to @-@ day operations of city government .

 City Hall , which has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places , is located at 601 23rd Avenue .

 The current mayor is Percy Bland .

 The council clerk is Pam McInnis .

 In total , the city employs 570 people .

 The city established a Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) shortly after Hurricane Katrina in 2005 , becoming the only local DHS in the state .

 The team oversees an area of nine counties .

 Upon receiving $ 2 @.@ 5 million in grants from the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency and other organizations , the department began training law enforcement offices from other Southern states in passenger rail rescue as well as offering civilian classes in basic handguns , Boy Scout first aid and hunting , and firearms training .

 The DHS helps during times of crisis such as Hurricane Ivan in September 2005 , when the department helped establish and support shelters for 700 evacuees .

 The city now serves as the leader of one of the task forces in the Mississippi DHS , a combination of three nine @-@ county teams .

 In 2009 , the department 's Criminal Investigations Division responded to 4000 cases , 2000 of which were felonies .

 It is operated by the GEO Group on behalf of the Mississippi Department of Corrections .

 The chief of the Meridian Fire Department is Anthony Clayton .

 The Mississippi Department of Mental Health operates the East Mississippi State Hospital in Meridian .

 The United States Postal Service operates the Meridian , North Meridian , and the West Meridian Station post offices .

 In state politics , the Mississippi Senate district map divides the city into three sections .

 A strip of the city from the southwest corner up to the northeast corner comprises part of the 32nd State Senate District and seats Sampson Jackson , II ( D ) .

 The western and southeastern portions of the city lie in the 33rd State Senate District and seats Videt Carmichael ( R ) .

 In the Mississippi House of Representatives districts , the city is divided into four districts .

 The southern and eastern portions of the city reside in House District 81 and are represented by Steven A. Horne ( R ) .

 On the national level , the city is located in Mississippi 's 3rd congressional district , represented by Gregg Harper ( R ) , who has been in office since 2009 .

 Lauderdale County , home to Meridian , has voted for the Republican candidate in every United States presidential election since 1972 .

 = = Demographics = =

 The city 's growth has reflected the push and pull of many social and economic factors .

 The total population increased in each census from the city 's founding until 1970 , although varying from rates as high as 165 % to as low as 0 @.@ 2 % .

 In the 1970 census the population decreased , then slightly increased by 1980 , after which the population slowly declined , increasing again since the turn of the 21st century .

 Between 1980 and 2000 , the population declined more than 14 % .

 The population increased as of 2010 .

 Meridian is the principal city in the Meridian micropolitan area , which as of 2009 consisted of three counties – Clarke , Kemper , and Lauderdale – and had a population of 106 @ , @ 139 .

 There is a population of 232 @ , @ 900 in a 45 @-@ mile ( 72 km ) radius and 526 @ , @ 500 in a 65 @-@ mile ( 105 km ) radius .

 While the overall population growth of the city has varied , there has been a steady growth in the number and percentage of non @-@ white residents .

 Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1 @.@ 75 % of the population .

 31 @.@ 1 % of occupied households had children under the age of 18 , 36 @.@ 2 % were married couples living together , 23 @.@ 3 % consisted of a female householder with no husband present , and 37 @.@ 2 % were non @-@ families .

 33 @.@ 2 % of all households were made up of individuals , and 14 @.@ 0 % had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older .

 Males had a median income of $ 29 @ , @ 404 versus $ 19 @ , @ 702 for females .

 = = = Religion = = =

 Immigrant Jews from Germany and eastern Europe were influential in commercial development of the city , building businesses and services .

 = = Geography and climate = =

 The area surrounding the city is covered with cotton and corn fields along with oak and pine forests , and its topography consists of clay hills and the bottom lands of the head waters of the Chickasawhay River .

 Sowashee Creek runs through the southern portion of the city and branches off into Gallagher 's Creek , which flows through the center of the city .

 Loper 's Creek runs through the far @-@ western part of the city while smaller creeks including Shearer 's Branch , Magnolia Creek , and Robbins Creek are dispersed throughout the city .

 The warmest month is July , with an average high of 92 @.@ 9 ° F ( 33 @.@ 8 ° C ) , and the coldest month of the year is January with an average low of 34 @.@ 7 ° F ( 1 @.@ 5 ° C ) .

 Rainfall is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year , and the wettest month of the year is March , in which an average of 6 @.@ 93 in ( 176 mm ) of rain falls .

 Much rainfall is delivered by thunderstorms which are common during the summer months but occur throughout the year .

 Severe thunderstorms - which can produce damaging winds and / or large hail in addition to the usual hazards of lightning and heavy rain - occasionally occur .

 These storms also bring the risk of tornadoes .

 = = Economy = =

 Early on , the economy depended greatly upon the railroads in the area .

 The city 's economy not only depended on the rails but the goods , such as timber and cotton , transported on them .

 Though its economy slowed with the decline of the railroading industry in the 1950s , the city has adapted , moving from a largely rail @-@ based economy to a more diversified one , with healthcare , military , and manufacturing employing the most people .

 The city thus serves as a hub of employment , retail , health care , and culture activities .

 Eighty percent of Lauderdale County 's workers reside in the county while 90 % live within 45 miles .

 In April 2010 , there were 6 @ , @ 260 people employed in the healthcare field in Lauderdale County .

 There are three hospitals in Meridian , as well as many other healthcare @-@ related facilities .

 Rush Foundation Hospital and the related Rush Health Systems operate a Specialty Hospital of Meridian , which offers long @-@ term care for non @-@ permanent patients who require more recovery time in a hospital setting .

 Riley Hospital has two centers for stroke treatment and rehabilitation services .

 Nearly $ 2 billion annually is spent on retail purchases in the city .

 Mall offers over one hundred shopping venues , including department stores , specialty shops , restaurants , eateries , and United Artists Theatres .

 The area is also served by two military facilities , Naval Air Station Meridian and Key Field , which supply over 4 @ , @ 000 jobs to residents of the surrounding area .

 NAS Meridian provides training for naval carrier pilots and other enlisted personnel .

 Key Field is the site of the famous flight by brothers Fred and Al Key , who set a world endurance flight record in 1935 .

 The site also contains an exhibit reviewing the history of aviation , and is the home of Meridian 's Aviation Museum .

 The total manufacturing employment of Lauderdale County in April 2010 was 2 @ , @ 850 people .

 Peavey Electronics Corporation , which has manufactured guitars , amplifiers , and sound equipment since 1965 , operates its headquarters in the city .

 Other businesses in the area include Avery Dennison , Structural Steel Services , Sara Lee , Tower Automotive , and Teikuro Corporation .

 The city is also home to four industrial parks .

 In downtown , the MSU Riley Center provides revenue from tourism , arts , and entertainment sales .

 Loeb 's Department Store on Front

 St has remained a Mississippi clothing landmark , having passed through four generations of family ownership .

 = = Culture = =

 = = = Arts = = =

 Known for more than a century of arts , Meridian contains many art and cultural organizations and hosts many cultural events .

 One of the first art organizations in the city , The Meridian Art League , was established in February 1933 .

 After the Carnegie library at 25th Ave and 7th St was closed , the Art Association remodelled the building into the Meridian Museum of Art to serve as a permanent home for exhibits .

 The museum was opened in 1970 and has since featured rotating exhibitions as well as many educational programs for both students and adults .

 Over thirty exhibitions are held annually , ranging from traditional decorative arts to ethnographic and tribal materials , photography , crafts , and many other works of art .

 The collection also includes 18th and 19th century portraits , 20th century photography , and several sculptures .

 The Meridian Council for the Arts ( MCA ) was founded as Meridian 's and Lauderdale County 's official arts agency in 1978 .

 MCA operates its Community Art Grants program , the annual Threefoot Festival , several workshops , and other special events each year .

 MCA is partnered with many arts organizations in the city and county including the Meridian Museum of Art , the Meridian Little Theatre , and the Meridian Symphony Orchestra .

 The Meridian Symphony Orchestra ( MSO ) – founded in 1961 – played its first concert in 1962 and its first full season in 1963 .

 In 1965 the MSO booked its first international soloist , Elena Nikolaidi , to perform with the orchestra .

 The Orchestra helped the Meridian Public School District develop its own orchestra and strings programs and also helped develop the Meridian Symphony Chorus .

 The MSO will celebrate its 50th anniversary in February 2011 with a performance from Itzhak Perlman .

 The city 's former Grand Opera House was built in 1889 by two half brothers , Israel Marks and Levi Rothenberg .

 After closing in the late 1920s due to the Great Depression , the opera house was abandoned for nearly 70 years .

 A $ 10 million grant in 2000 by the Riley Foundation , a local foundation chartered in 1998 , sparked the building 's restoration while $ 15 million came from a combination of city , county , and federal grants .

 Meridian is rightly considered an architectural treasure trove being one the nations most intact cities from the turn of the last century .

 Architecture students from around the nation and Canada are known to visit Meridian in groups as part of their coursework due to numerous structures in the city having been designed by noted architects .

 The only home in the US south designed by noted Canadian born Architect Louis S. Curtiss , famous for inventing the glass curtain wall skyscraper , is extant on Highland Park .

 The Frank Fort designed Threefoot Building is generally considered one of the best Art Deco skyscrapers in the US and is often compared to Detroit 's famed Fisher Building .

 Noted California Architect Wallace Neff designed a number of homes in Meridian as well as in the Alabama Black Belt which adjoins the city across the nearby Alabama State line .

 He had relatives in Meridian and Selma who were executives in the then thriving railroad industry and would take commissions in the area when commissions in California were lean .

 His work is mostly concentrated in the lower numbered blocks of Poplar Springs Drive where his 2516 Poplar Springs Drive is often compared to the similarly designed Falcon Lair , the Beverly Hills home in Benedict Canyon of Rudolph Valentino .

 One Neff work was lost to an expansion of Anderson Hospital in 1990 and another in Marion Park burned in the 1950s .

 Meridian has also been selected as the future location of the Mississippi Arts and Entertainment Center ( MAEC ) .

 The Mississippi Legislature approved the idea in 2001 and in 2006 promised $ 4 million in funding if private contributors could raise $ 8 million .

 The city donated $ 50 @ , @ 000 to the cause in September 2007 .

 The Hall of Fame will be located downtown in the old Montana 's building .

 That property and the adjacent Meridian Hotel building were acquired in July 2010 for $ 300 @ , @ 000 .

 In February 2009 , the MAEC revealed its Walk of Fame outside of the Riley Center in an attempt to promote the planned Hall of Fame .

 The first star on the walk was dedicated to Jimmie Rodgers , a Meridian native .

 In September of the same year , the second star was revealed , recognizing B.B. King , a famous blues musician from Mississippi .

 Sela Ward was added to the walk on June 24 , 2010 .

 The MAEC plans to add many more Mississippi @-@ born stars to the Walk of Fame ; names mentioned include Morgan Freeman , Jimmy Buffett , Elvis Presley , Conway Twitty , and others .

 Another location in the city used for large productions is the Hamasa Shrine Temple Theater .

 The Temple Theater houses a 778 @-@ pipe Robert Morgan organ , one of two Theater Organs still in their original installations in the state .

 Highland Park houses a Jimmie Rodgers museum which displays the original guitar of " The Singing Brakeman " and other memorabilia of his life and career , as well as railroad equipment from the steam @-@ engine era .

 In addition to the museum building itself , there are outside memorials , and a vintage steam locomotive on display .

 The city was the first site to receive this designation outside the Mississippi Delta .

 The park is also home to a 19th @-@ century carousel manufactured around 1895 by Gustav Dentzel of Philadelphia , Pennsylvania .

 Sixty @-@ two pieces have been sponsored by local businesses and citizens , and design of the horses was conceived and painted by local artists .

 They are placed throughout the city and county .

 = = = Recreation = = =

 The city contains several recreational parks , including Highland Park , Bonita Lakes , and Okatibbee Lake .

 Along with the lakes , the Bonita Lakes area includes Bonita Lakes Mall , Bonita Lakes Crossing , and Bonita Lakes Plaza .

 Splashdown Country Water Park , a 25 @-@ room motel , and cabins are located on the lake .

 The organization is a member of the National Congress of State Games , which is affiliated with the U.S. Olympic Committee .

 In 2009 , more than 4500 athletes participated in 27 sports .

 Opening ceremonies always begin on the 3rd Friday of June in downtown Meridian .

 The games are held at several sports parks , including Northeast Park , Sammie Davidson Complex , and other various fields throughout the city .

 The Sammie Davidson Sports Complex includes six tennis courts , four softball fields , and a half @-@ mile track .

 Other sports fields include the Meridian Jaycee Soccer Complex , Sykes Park , and Phil Hardin Park .

 Briarwood County Club , located on Highway 39 North , is a private club with golf , swimming , fishing , and dining facilities .

 Other golf courses serving the city include Northwood Country Club , Okatibbee Creek Golf Center , and Ponta Creek Golf Course .

 = = Transportation = =

 The number of passengers on Amtrak trains , Greyhound buses , and Meridian Transit System buses averages 242 @ , @ 360 per year .

 = = = Air = = =

 The city is served by Meridian Regional Airport , located at Key Field , 2811 Airport Boulevard South , 3 mi ( 4 @.@ 8 km ) southwest of the city .

 The airport , which has been in service since 1930 , offers daily flights to Dallas / Fort Worth , TX .

 During the Great Depression , residents of the city contemplated abandoning the airport because of the cost of maintenance , but in 1935 Brothers Fred and Al Key , managers of the airport , thought of a way to keep the airport operating .

 The record they established in their 27 days aloft , totaling 653 hours and 34 minutes , attracted enough publicity and funds to the city to keep the airport running .

 Key Field is therefore named after the brothers , whose flight endurance record remains unbroken in conventional flight .

 = = = Highways = = =

 Interstate Highways

 Interstate 20

 Runs west through Jackson , Mississippi , eventually terminating near Kent , Texas , and east through Tuscaloosa , Alabama , eventually terminating in Florence , South Carolina .

 Interstate 59

 It also runs south through Hattiesburg , Mississippi , and on to Slidell , Louisiana .

 U.S. Highways

 U.S. Highway 11

 Runs parallel to Interstate 59 south to New Orleans , Louisiana , and north all the way to the Canada – US border .

 U.S. Highway 45

 U.S. Highway 80

 Runs west through Jackson , Mississippi , to Dallas , Texas , and east through Demopolis , Alabama , all the way to Tybee Island , Georgia and the Atlantic Ocean .

 State Highways

 Mississippi Highway 19

 Mississippi Highway 39

 Begins in Meridian and runs north to Shuqualak , Mississippi .

 Mississippi Highway 145

 Formerly US 45 , but now only exists as an alternate route in several cities .

 Mississippi Highway 493

 Begins in Meridian and runs north to Lynville , Mississippi .

 = = Education = =

 Early public education in Meridian was based on the 1870 Mississippi Constitution .

 From 1870 to 1885 , trustees appointed by the City Council served on the Board of School Directors , which had authority to operate the schools .

 Although there were several schools in the city before 1884 , they were privately owned and only enrolled about 400 students .

 The city did not build its first publicly owned school until September 1884 .

 The first public school for blacks in the city was held in facilities rented from St. Paul Methodist Church .

 The Mississippi Legislature amended the city charter in January 1888 to allow the city to maintain its own municipal school district , and in March of the same year $ 30 @ ,@ 000 in bonds was approved for the city to build new public schools .

 From this bond , the Wechsler School was built in 1894 , becoming the first brick public school building in the state built for blacks .

 From this early district and later additions , the Meridian Public School District grew to its current size , which now includes six elementary schools , 3 middle schools , and 3 high schools .

 The city also contains several private schools including Lamar School , Calvary Christian School , Community Christian School , and St. Patrick 's Catholic School .

 The campus of Meridian High School , the main high school in the district , occupies 37 acres ( 15 ha ) , including six buildings and 111 classrooms .

 The school is made up of grades 10 @-@ 12 and enrolls approximately 1 @ , @ 500 students .

 Meridian is home to two post @-@ secondary educational institutions .

 Meridian Community College , founded in 1937 , is located at 910 Highway 19 N and offers free tuition for four semesters to graduates from the Meridian Public and Lauderdale County School Districts as well as homeschooled children who reside inside Lauderdale County .

 Originally known as Meridian Junior College and located at Meridian High School , the college moved to its present location in 1965 .

 The name change from Meridian Junior College to Meridian Community College took place

 As of the Fall 2008 semester , 763 students from 33 counties throughout the state and several in Alabama attended the college .

 The city originally had two Carnegie libraries , both built in 1913 – one for blacks and one for whites .

 A group of women had formed the Fortnightly Book and Magazine Club in the 1880s and began raising money to build a library for the city .

 The books they collected and shared within the club were later the basis of the library collection for Meridian .

 With wide support for the library , the club enlisted Israel Marks , a city leader , to approach the national philanthropist Andrew Carnegie for funding assistance .

 The library for blacks was built at 13th Street and 28th Avenue on land donated by St. Paul Methodist Church , and the library for whites was established in a building originally owned by members of the First Presbyterian Church of Meridian , who sold it to the city on September 25 , 1911 .

 = = Media = =

 With a daily circulation of about 12 @ , @ 000 in March 2010 , the paper serves Lauderdale County as well as adjacent portions of western Alabama and eastern Mississippi .

 The city is the principal city in the Meridian , Mississippi Designated Market Area ( DMA ) , which includes 72 @ , @ 180 households with televisions .

 WTOK @-@ TV broadcasts as an ABC affiliate from the city , headquartered at 815 23rd Avenue .

 WTOK operates two digital subchannels , WTOK @-@ DT2 , a MyNetwork TV affiliate , and WTOK @-@ DT3 , Meridian 's CW .

 WGBC @-@ TV , the market 's NBC affiliate , is headquartered at 1151 Crestview Circle .

 WGBC operates under a program services agreement with WMDN @-@ TV , the market 's CBS affiliate which operates a local AccuWeather service on its second subchannel .

 WMAW @-@ TV is the local affiliate of Mississippi Public Broadcasting .

 WJXM ( FM 105 @.@ 7 ) , headquartered at 3436 Highway 45 North , takes the largest share of ratings in the market at 14 @.@ 8 % in Fall 2009 .

 = = Notable people = =

 Meridian has produced or hosted many famous people in the arts and other areas .

 For example :

 = = =

 In acting = = =

 Alvin Childress , who played the lead role in the Amos ' n ' Andy Show , was born in the city in 1907 .

 Sela Ward was born in Meridian , in 1956 .

 = = =

 In business and politics = = =

 Winfield Dunn , former Governor of Tennessee , lived in Meridian

 John Fleming , current U.S. Representative for Louisiana 's 4th congressional district lived in Meridian ;

 The late Lieutenant Governor Carroll Gartin , who was born in Meridian , lived in Laurel ;

 Gillespie V. Montgomery , former U.S. Representative , lived in Meridian

 Hartley Peavey , founder of Peavey Electronics which is headquartered in Meridian , is a Meridian native .

 Tom Stuart from 1973 to 1977 was the first Republican to serve as mayor of Meridian in the 20th century .

 = = =

 In broadcasting = = =

 Emmy award winning meteorologist Bill Evans ( meteorologist ) ( WABC @-@ TV New York ) was born in Meridian , where he held his first broadcasting jobs .

 = = =

 In literature and comics = = =

 Novelist Edwin Granberry , who won the 1932 O. Henry Award for Best Short Short Story , was born in Meridian .

 For 30 years , Granberry wrote the Buz Sawyer comic strip .

 Meridian is the birthplace of novelist and short story writer Barry Hannah .

 = = =

 In music = = =

 Classical composer John Luther Adams is a Meridian native .

 The Island Def Jam rapper Big K.R.I.T. was born in Meridian .

 K.R.I.

 T is known for his many mixtapes and albums such as K.R.I.T. Wuz Here and Cadillactica .

 The guitarist @-@ songwriter George Cummings , born in Meridian in 1938 , was a founding member of Dr. Hook & the Medicine Show .

 He was a member of the International Submarine Band ( ISB ) and The Flying Burrito Brothers , and he co @-@ wrote several songs with Gram Parsons .

 The singer @-@ songwriter Steve Forbert was born in Meridian in 1954 .

 Jimmie Rodgers , the " Father of Country Music " , was born in the city in 1897 .

 David Ruffin , former lead singer of The Temptations , and his older brother Jimmy Ruffin were born in the surrounding area , Whynot and Collinsville , respectively .

 George Soulé , the singer @-@ songwriter most famous for the rhythm and blues anthem " Get Involved " , is a resident of Meridian , where he was born in 1945 .

 Hayley Williams , lead singer of the band Paramore , was also born in the city in 1988 .

 Singer Al Wilson , born in June 1939 , was a Meridian native .

 = = =

 In sports = = =

 = = = Others = = =

 Other notable natives of the city include :

 James Chaney - one of the victims of the Mississippi civil rights workers murders in 1964 @ , @

 Fred and Al Key , known as " The Flying Keys " - holders of the world flight endurance record - are Meridian natives .

 Fred Phelps , leader of the Westboro Baptist Church ,

 = = In popular culture = =

 = = = Fictional characters = = =

 Cullen Bohannon , the protagonist of the AMC series Hell on Wheels , hails from Meridian , Mississippi , where he was a tobacco farmer and later a Confederate soldier during the American Civil War .

 = Papa Stour =

 Papa Stour is one of the Shetland Islands in Scotland , with a population of under twenty people , some of whom immigrated after an appeal for residents in the 1970s .

 Erosion of the soft volcanic rocks by the sea has created an extraordinary variety of caves , stacks , arches , blowholes , and cliffs .

 The island and its surrounding seas harbour diverse populations of wildlife .

 The west side of the island is a Site of Special Scientific Interest and the seas around the island are a Special Area of Conservation .

 The island has several Neolithic burial chamber sites , as well as the remains of Duke Hakon 's 13th @-@ century house dating from the Norse occupation of the island .

 The population reached 380 or more in the nineteenth century , when a fishing station was opened at Crabbaberry in West Voe .

 Subsequently there was a steady decline in population , although the numbers have increased from a low of 16 in the 1970s .

 Today the main settlement on the island is Biggings , just to the east of which is Housa Voe from where the Snolda ferry arrives from its base at West Burrafirth on the Shetland Mainland .

 Crofting , especially sheep rearing , is the mainstay of island life .

 Numerous shipwrecks have occurred around the coast , and the celebrated poem Da Sang o da Papa Men by Vagaland recalls the drama of the days when Papa Stour was a centre for deep @-@ sea fishing .

 = = Geography = =

 Papa Stour is located at the south western end of St Magnus Bay .

 There are 34 kilometres ( 21 mi ) of rugged coastline which is indented by numerous small embayments and four larger ' voes ' .

 Hamna Voe ( Old Norse : ' harbour bay ' ) in the south is the most sheltered anchorage and the surrounding cliffs contain a natural rock arch .

 Brei Holm and Maiden Stack guard the harbour entrance to the south .

 The latter 's name relates to a story from the 14th century .

 The main settlement on the island today is Biggings , which overlooks Housa Voe and is surrounded by in @-@ bye land to the east of the hill dyke ( which runs south from West Voe ) .

 To the west the island is bisected by a belt of glacial moraine about one and a half kilometres in length .

 Much of the rest of the area consists of a shallow stony soil that may be derived from glacial till .

 There is an almost complete absence of peat on the island and due to the volcanic rocks the soils are relatively fertile .

 In addition to the larger islets mentioned above there are various other isles and skerries around the coast of Papa Stour .

 The Ve Skerries lie 5 kilometres ( 3 @.@ 1 mi ) to the north west .

 They include : Helliogoblo , North Skerry , Ormal , Reaverack and The Clubb .

 In between Papa Stour and Ve Skerries lies the shallow bank of Papa @-@ rof .

 On the basis of a marriage arrangement between King Christian of Norway and King James III of Scotland that dates to 1468 , Hill argued that the island should be considered a British crown dependency , and thus not a part of the United Kingdom or of the European Union .

 This claim was not recognised by the United Kingdom .

 = = Geology = =

 The island is composed of a variety of volcanic and sedimentary rock formations from the Devonian period .

 At that time the Scottish landmass formed part of the Old Red Sandstone Continent and lay some 10 @-@ 25 degrees south of the equator .

 The accumulations of Old Red Sandstone , laid down from 408 to 370 million years ago , were created as earlier Silurian rocks , uplifted by the formation of Pangaea , eroded and then were deposited into river deltas .

 The freshwater Lake Orcadie existed on the edges of the eroding mountains , stretching from Shetland to the southern Moray Firth .

 There are numerous large boulders deposited by Pleistocene glaciation .

 The ' Holl o Boardie ' is a cave that passes right through the north @-@ west tip of the island .

 It is nearly half a mile long and wide enough to row through .

 This was the favourite of John Tudor who wrote of the island in his Victorian memoirs and described the cave as :

 In 1953 the spectacular headland , ' Da Horn o Papa ' fell into the sea during a storm .

 The nearby islet of Brei Holm also has caves that can be accessed by small boats when conditions permit .

 = = Ecology = =

 Otters , grey seals , killer whales and harbour porpoises are frequently seen on and around Papa Stour .

 There is a profusion of wild flowers , including mountain everlasting , spring squill and eyebright as well as the ubiquitous heather .

 The west side of the island is a Site of Special Scientific Interest and the seas around Papa Stour are a Special Area of Conservation .

 The traditional Shetland Pony is still bred .

 = = History and archaeology = =

 Human settlement of the island dates from circa 3000 BC and there are remains of several Neolithic burial chambers known as ' heel @-@ shaped cairns ' .

 = = = Norse period = = =

 Papa Stour is the subject of a 1299 manuscript written in Old Norse , which is the oldest surviving document from Shetland .

 It deals with a dramatic incident in the house of Duke Hakon Magnusson , who was later to become King Hakon V of Norway .

 There is a circle of stones near the beach at Housa Voe , which are the remains of a ' ting ' , or local assembly .

 The remains of Duke Hakon 's thirteenth @-@ century house are still visible near Housa Voe .

 In 1469 Shetland came under nominal Scottish control , although the Norse ' Lairds of Norway ' kept their Papa Stour estates until the 17th century .

 In the 16th century merchants from Bremen and Hamburg were operating a summer trading booth to buy fish from the local fleet .

 By the 18th century , two Scottish lairds , Thomas Gifford of Busta , and Arthur Nicolson of Lerwick , owned the island .

 A recent archaeological survey was inconclusive but suggests the site may be much older than the supposed 18th century colony .

 The island church , which overlooks Kirk Sand in the bay of Fore Wick , was founded in 1806 .

 It is called the ' ald kirk ' by locals and referred to by the Ordnance Survey as " the site of a Romish chapel belonging to about the twelfth century " .

 Excavations in 2004 found little besides large blocks of rhyolite and a piece of whalebone rib , suggesting that the oral tradition may have some truth to it .

 In the 19th century the Crabbaberry fishing station in West Voe was opened and the island had a population of 360 people or more .

 However , fuel shortages and a decline in fishing due to the introduction of steam drifters saw a fall in population from the 1870s on .

 At this time another duel entered the history of Papa Stour .

 Edwin Lindsay , an Indian army officer and the son of the 6th Earl of Balcarres , was declared insane and sent to the island in disgrace after refusing to fight in one .

 He spent 26 years as a prisoner before the Quaker preacher Catherine Watson arranged for his release in 1835 .

 Lindsay 's Well is a spring at the south of the island where he was allowed to bathe .

 There are good examples of horizontal water mills , also known as Norse or Clack Mills , around Dutch Loch .

 Inside the building there was a fixed lower millstone , and a rotating upper millstone driven by the water falling onto the paddles below .

 = = = 20th and 21st centuries = = =

 In common with many small Scottish islands , Papa Stour 's population peaked in the 19th century and has experienced a significant decline since then ( see e.g. Mingulay ) .

 By 1970 the island school had closed and the population had declined to sixteen ' fairly elderly ' residents , but an advertisement in Exchange and Mart reversed the decline .

 A croft and five sheep were offered free of charge to incomers which brought a flood of applicants .

 By 1981 the census recorded a population of 33 .

 A number of people left the island and the school closed .

 By early 2008 the population had dropped to just nine after a family of seven left .

 Overview of population trends

 = = = Shipwrecks = = =

 The coasts around Papa Stour have claimed numerous wrecks .

 The Aberdeen trawler Ben Doran A178 , foundered on the Ve Skerries 3 miles northwest of Papa Stour , on the evening of 28 March 1930 while on her way to the village of Scalloway to land her catch .

 All 9 crew perished in the wreck .

 Only 3 bodies were recovered , that of James Mitchell , which was returned to Aberdeen , and the bodies of J. Cormack and J.R. Insh , which were buried in Scalloway .

 On this occasion the conditions were clement and only the ship and cargo were lost .

 In 1967 the Aberdeen trawler Juniper ran aground in Lyra Sound at the bottom of the 60 metres ( 200 feet ) cliffs .

 The 12 man crew were rescued by the Aith lifeboat , the coxswain being awarded the RNLI silver medal for this rescue .

 The Aith Lifeboat came to the scene but was unable to get near enough to rescue the crew because of the sea conditions .

 At the request of Alec Webster , Coastguard Station Officer , Lerwick , a volunteer crew in a British Airways Sikorsky S61N helicopter from Sumburgh Airport was scrambled .

 They managed to winch all the boat 's crew to safety within hours of the grounding , despite the storm force winds .

 The helicopter crew later received a number of awards for bravery .

 = = Economy & Transport = =

 Crofting is the mainstay of island life .

 Sheep form the backbone of the agricultural economy but a diversity livestock are kept , including cattle , pigs , goats , chickens , ducks and geese .

 Fishing is still conducted but on a relatively small scale .

 There is a post office at the pier , but no shop .

 Mains electricity only came to the island at the close of the twentieth century .

 Ferries now sail across the Sound of Papa to West Burrafirth on the Shetland Mainland .

 The crossing takes 45 minutes , and although the Snolda carries cars , there is only one short road on the island .

 For visiting yachts the four main voes provide good shelter , but the strong tides in both the Sound of Papa and to the north west require considerable care .

 = = = Airstrip = = =

 There is an airstrip which caters for regular flights from Tingwall .

 = = Culture and the arts = =

 A description of the dance appears in The Pirate by Sir Walter Scott .

 The writer and journalist John Sands lived on Papa Stour and Foula for a while during the late nineteenth century .

 The writer , folklorist and musician , George P. S. Peterson was brought up on Papa Stour .

 The insistent chorus chant , ' Rowin Foula Doon ! ' , is particularly striking .

 " Oot bewast da Horn o Papa ,

 Rowin Foula doon !

 Owir a hidden piece o water ,

 Rowin Foula doon !

 Roond da boat da tide @-@ lumps makkin ,

 Sunlicht trowe da cloods is brakkin ;

 We maan geng whaar fish is takkin ,

 Rowin Foula doon ! "

 " Rowin Foula doon ! " refers to the fishermens ' practice of rowing their open fishing boat out to sea until the high cliffs of Foula were no longer visible .

 This entailed the boat being some 96 kilometres ( 60 mi ) west of Papa Stour .

 The ' tide @-@ lumps ' are increased swells of unusual size due to the combined action of wind against tide .

 The resonant final image of the piece is of the fishermen being led back home to Papa by the ' scent o flooers ' across the water .

 This is an example of Vagaland 's ability to create a vivid sensual impression of a situation .

 = Angel of Death ( Slayer song ) =

 " Angel of Death " is the opening track on the American thrash metal band Slayer 's 1986 album Reign in Blood .

 The lyrics and music were written by Slayer guitarist , Jeff Hanneman and are based on Nazi physician Josef Mengele , who conducted human experiments at the Auschwitz concentration camp during World War II . " Angel of Death " led to the band facing accusations of Nazi sympathizing and racism throughout their career .

 The song was well received by critics ; Steve Huey of AllMusic described it as a " classic " .

 = = Composition and origins = =

 Slayer guitarist Jeff Hanneman wrote " Angel of Death " after reading books about Nazi physician Josef Mengele while on tour with the band : " I remember stopping someplace where I bought two books on Mengele .

 The lyrics detail Mengele 's surgical experiments on patients at the Auschwitz concentration camp during World War II .

 Mengele 's explorations were conducted on such groups as dwarfs and twins , and included both physical and psychological examinations .

 " Sewn together , joining heads .

 This allegation became more widely known when Vera Alexander was featured in the 1985 documentary The Search for Mengele , which has been cited by several authors including Gerald Posner , an expert on Mengele .

 Towards the end of the song , there is a line " Feeding off the screams of the mutants he 's creating " , which was taken from the film The Boys from Brazil in which Dr. Mengele was the villain .

 = = Controversy = =

 The lyrical content of " Angel of Death " contributed to the delay of the release of Slayer 's 1986 album Reign in Blood .

 The band were signed to Def Jam Records whose distributor , Columbia Records , refused to release the album due to lyrical themes and artwork concerns , deeming the artwork " too graphic " . Reign in Blood was eventually distributed by Geffen Records on October 7 , 1986 .

 " Angel of Death " caused outrage among survivors of the Holocaust , as well as their families and the general public .

 The controversy led to accusations of Nazi sympathizing which have followed Slayer throughout their career .

 People took Hanneman 's interest in Nazi history and his collection of Nazi medals as evidence of sympathizing – his most prized item being a German Knight 's Cross .

 Hanneman counteracted asserting :

 I shouldn 't have to tell you that . "

 And of course we got the most flak for it in Germany .

 I was always like , ' Read the lyrics and tell me what 's offensive about it .

 Can you see it as a documentary , or do you think Slayer 's preaching fucking World War II ?

 The song drew accusations of racism , which the band has denied .

 The band members are often asked about the accusations in interviews , and have stated numerous times that they do not condone racism and are merely interested in the subject .

 In 2006 , the song " Jihad " from Slayer 's 2006 album Christ Illusion drew comparison to " Angel of Death " . " Jihad " deals with the September 11 , 2001 , attacks , and tells the story from a terrorist 's perspective .

 = = Music and structure = =

 Additionally , it has one of the most conventional song structures on the album , featuring prominent verses and choruses , where most tracks on the album eschew them .

 Hanneman and King deliver their ' intricate riffs ' , which offer the few hints of melody on the album according to PopMatters reviewer Adrien Begrand , and Araya bursts out his piercing scream , with Lombardo performing beats of 210 beats per minute .

 When drummer Lombardo left Slayer in 1992 , the band hired a full @-@ time replacement in Forbidden drummer Paul Bostaph .

 Bostaph made one mistake out of the nine songs the band trialled him with , on " Angel of Death " .

 Bostaph could not tell how many revolutions the guitar riff goes before the bass sequence .

 The band members told him there were eight , " perfecting " the song afterwards .

 = = Reception = =

 Although " Angel of Death " did not enter any charts , it received strong praise from critics in reviews for Reign in Blood .

 Clay Jarvas of Stylus Magazine noted that the song " smokes the asses of any band playing fast and / or heavy today .

 Lyrically outlining the horrors to come , while musically laying the groundwork for the rest of the record : fast , lean and filthy . "

 Capitalizing on the publicity generated by the controversy , the band utilized Nazi imagery by adapting a logo to one similar to the eagle atop swastika , during the Seasons in the Abyss period .

 Hanneman placed SS stickers on his guitar , and wrote " SS @-@ 3 " a song about Reinhard Heydrich , the second in command in the Schutzstaffel organization .

 = = Appearances = =

 " Angel of Death " has appeared in several movies and TV shows including Gremlins 2 : The New Batch in a scene when the gremlin Mohawk is turning into a spider , Jackass :

 Don 't know who Slayer is ?

 I feel sorry for you . "

 A Slayer tribute band called Dead Skin Mask released an album with eight Slayer tracks , " Angel of Death " being one of them .

 The death metal bands Debauchery and Monstrosity covered the song , and the track was featured on cello metal band Apocalyptica 's 2006 album Amplified / / A Decade of Reinventing the Cello .

 Al Sur del Abismo ( Tributo Argentino a Slayer ) , a Slayer tribute album compiled by Hurling Metal Records , featured sixteen tracks covered by Argentina metal bands , Asinesia covered " Angel of Death " .

 The song was once again covered by deathcore band Carnifex and appears on their third album Hell Chose Me as a bonus track included on the vinyl and iTunes editions .

 A compilation album of bands that have been featured in the Ozzfest line @-@ up , of which Slayer have headlined multiple times , features " Angel of Death " .

 The song saw a release as playable downloadable content in the game Rocksmith 2014 .

 = Calvin McCarty =

 Calvin McCarty ( born November 2 , 1984 ) is a Canadian football running back for the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League ( CFL ) .

 He played as a tailback until 2014 , when he became the starting fullback for the Eskimos .

 He is a champion of the 103rd Grey Cup .

 Prior to being drafted by the Edmonton Eskimos in the fourth round of the 2007 CFL Draft , McCarty played high school football for the St. Thomas More Knights , where he broke multiple school records .

 He later played college football for the Western Washington Vikings .

 With the Vikings , McCarty developed into a dual threat , being used heavily as a rusher and receiver .

 McCarty has spent his entire professional career with the Edmonton Eskimos , making him the most veteran player on the team as of the 2015 season .

 = = High school career = =

 McCarty played high school football for the St. Thomas More Knights in Burnaby , British Columbia beginning in 1998 , playing as both a running back and middle linebacker on the Grade 8 team .

 For that performance , he was named " Star of the Week " by The Vancouver Sun .

 He continued in his role as a running back while switching to the secondary defensively .

 In 2000 , McCarty played a significant role in the Knights ' rushing and return game .

 He rushed for 150 yards and three touchdowns against the Burnaby Central Wildcats in the annual Burnaby Bowl , adding two punt returns for touchdowns .

 He recorded 238 yards and four consecutive touchdowns with only 23 carries in the Knights ' 46 – 12 victory over the W. J. Mouat Hawks in the AAA championship game .

 For his role in earning the Knights their second AAA title , McCarty was named the game 's MVP , becoming the youngest player to earn this award .

 McCarty remained a presence on the field for the Knights in 2001 , expanding his role by playing some snaps as a fullback .

 He rushed for 160 yards in that year 's Burnaby Bowl , including three touchdowns as a halfback and one as a fullback .

 McCarty had another notable performance in a 67 – 7 blowout against the South Delta Sun Devils , running for 200 yards and three touchdowns .

 He also showed himself to be a capable receiver , including making five catches for 66 yards in a match against the Holy Cross Crusaders .

 McCarty also finished that game with 110 yards and two touchdowns on only three carries .

 Despite giving up only 19 points during the entire regular season , the Knights lost 32 – 26 in the quarter @-@ finals of the playoffs against the Centennial Centaurs after McCarty was stopped one yard away from the endzone on the last play of the game .

 As a senior , McCarty recorded 2 @ , @ 400 yards and scored 33 touchdowns in just nine games , averaging 266 @.@ 7 yards and over three touchdowns per game .

 He ran for 380 yards and three touchdowns in a 21 – 20 loss against the W. J. Mouat Hawks in the quarter @-@ finals of the AAA playoffs .

 He was named the 2002 Provincial Player of the Year for his performance and finished his four @-@ year AAA career at St. Thomas More with 84 touchdowns , breaking a school record .

 = = = Other sports = = =

 McCarty played basketball and baseball during high school as well .

 He lettered in basketball with the Knights .

 At the 2001 Big League World Series , McCarty played for Team Canada as a shortstop and center fielder , helping the team to third place in the international competition .

 Despite being skilled as a baseball player , McCarty chose football over professional baseball due to the physicality of the former sport .

 = = College career = =

 = = = Boise State = = =

 McCarty originally committed to Boise State University and played for the Broncos .

 In 2003 , he was given redshirt status and did not play .

 McCarty played a limited role the following year , but capitalized on the opportunities he was given , rushing for 104 yards on only 10 carries .

 His only touchdown came on a 7 @-@ yard carry in the October 24 game against the Fresno State Bulldogs .

 The Bulldogs finished with an 11 – 1 season in 2004 .

 = = = Reedley = = =

 McCarty transferred to Reedley College and played for the Tigers in 2005 .

 He ended the season with 620 rushing yards , 500 receiving yards , and 14 touchdowns , as the Tigers earned a 10 – 1 record along their way to the Central Valley Conference championship title .

 McCarty also played baseball at Reedley .

 = = = Western Washington = = =

 After his single season at Reedley , McCarty transferred to Western Washington University and played football for the Vikings .

 In the season opener , he rushed for 139 yards and three touchdowns on 30 carries against the Humboldt State Lumberjacks .

 After starting the first seven games for the Vikings , McCarty broke his foot in a game against the South Dakota Hardrockers .

 At the time of his injury , he led the Vikings in rushing and receiving yards .

 He finished the season with 492 rushing yards and five touchdowns on 130 carries , as well as 30 receptions for 278 yards .

 McCarty was also named a second @-@ team all @-@ star of the North Central Conference .

 = = Professional career = =

 = = = Edmonton Eskimos = = =

 Following his only season at Western Washington , McCarty declared himself eligible for the 2007 CFL Draft .

 He was selected in the fourth round of the draft by the Edmonton Eskimos with the 27th overall pick .

 McCarty made the active roster and played in all 18 regular season games his rookie season .

 He was used in the passing game and on the special teams , finishing with seven receptions for 99 yards and a touchdown as well as five special @-@ teams tackles .

 McCarty made his CFL debut on June 28 in the season opener against the Winnipeg Blue Bombers .

 He received his first carry and reception in a Week 10 game against the Calgary Stampeders , where he was given two carries for one yard and caught one reception for 10 yards .

 = = = = 2008 season = = = =

 McCarty played a larger role in his second season with the Eskimos , especially as a receiver .

 Filling in again for the injured Harris on September 13 against the Montreal Alouettes , McCarty was named Canadian Player of the Week for the first time with 72 yards on only 9 carries and a touchdown .

 He played in all 18 games and started three times in his second year , finishing with 490 yards and four touchdowns on 88 carries .

 He had 70 catches , the second @-@ highest amount among running backs .

 He also continued his role on the special teams , ending the season with 11 special @-@ teams tackles .

 = = = = 2009 season = = = =

 McCarty split time with Arkee Whitlock in 2009 .

 He rushed for two touchdowns in Week 4 , being named the Canadian Player of the Week for the third time .

 He briefly returned in mid @-@ September before being sidelined again with recurring hamstring issues until late October .

 In Week 19 , McCarty ran for 81 yards and a touchdown off of 10 carries , helping the Eskimos defeat the BC Lions in a 45 – 13 blowout .

 Despite having his season sidetracked by injuries , McCarty finished 2009 with 348 rushing yards and five touchdowns on 67 attempts , as well as seven special @-@ teams tackles .

 He saw a significantly smaller role as a receiver , catching 20 passes for only 124 yards .

 McCarty remained in a multi @-@ purpose role in 2010 and was utilized more frequently in the passing game compared to the previous season .

 He made a reception for a first down following a fake punt in Week 6 .

 He missed two games later in the season due to a hand injury .

 In a September 26 game against the Toronto Argonauts , McCarty rushed for 84 yards on 10 carries and two fourth @-@ quarter touchdowns , including a 46 @-@ yard breakaway .

 McCarty was utilized about equally on the ground and in the air , ending his season with 287 rushing yards on 62 carries and 278 receiving yards on 36 catches as well as five total touchdowns .

 He continued to play on the special teams where he made eight tackles .

 He started in six of the 15 games he played , and the Eskimos nominated him for Most Outstanding Canadian .

 In 2011 , the Eskimos utilized a committee of running backs , with McCarty , Daniel Porter , and Jerome Messam all receiving significant playing time .

 He played in 18 games , made eight starts , and finished with 209 yards on 52 carries with no touchdowns .

 He also caught 22 passes for 150 yards and a touchdown .

 McCarty played in both of the Eskimos ' playoff games .

 In the West Semi @-@ Finals against the Stampeders , he rushed for a goal @-@ line touchdown , in addition to making three receptions and two special @-@ teams tackles .

 = = = = 2012 season = = = =

 McCarty played a limited role in 2012 , both due to injuries and competition from other backs , including Cory Boyd , Hugh Charles , and Jerome Messam .

 McCarty missed six games due to a high ankle sprain suffered during the Labour Day Rematch .

 Playing in the other 12 games but starting in none , McCarty rushed only 12 times and made five receptions with a lone rushing touchdown .

 He added four special @-@ teams tackles .

 = = = = 2013 season = = = =

 McCarty played a role as a receiver and special teams player in 2013 , but was almost entirely absent from the rushing game .

 He rushed for 48 yards on 9 carries , but caught 20 passes for 186 yards and two touchdowns .

 He continued to play on the special teams , and recorded nine special @-@ teams tackles .

 = = = = 2014 season = = = =

 McCarty was shifted from playing mostly as a backup tailback to the fullback position , where he started all 18 regular season games .

 He continued his extremely limited role as a rusher , finishing the season with just eight carries .

 McCarty had 16 catches for 123 yards and two touchdowns , as well as a career @-@ high 12 special @-@ teams tackles .

 McCarty was again used as a fullback and special teams player in 2015 .

 After sustaining an unspecified injury in week 12 , he missed several games and was placed on the six @-@ game injured list .

 McCarty finished the season with only one carry and nine catches , his lowest total number of touches in any CFL season .

 With 12 starts , McCarty finished with one carry for 20 yards , nine receptions for 68 yards , as well as five special teams tackles and one kick return for 17 yards .

 McCarty played in the West Final and had one special teams tackle .

 = = = Season statistics = = =

 = = Personal life = =

 McCarty grew up in Muskogee , Oklahoma .

 After his mother , Jackie Conway , was unable to financially support him , McCarty moved to Canada and lived with his father , Orlando McCarty .

 McCarty 's siblings were also college athletes ;

 Tiffany played softball for the McPherson Bulldogs while Jordan was a quarterback with the Reedley Tigers .

 = Hurricane Beatriz ( 2011 ) =

 Hurricane Beatriz was a Category 1 hurricane that killed four people after brushing the western coast of Mexico in June 2011 .

 Originating from an area of disturbed weather on June 19 , several hundred miles south of Mexico , Beatriz gradually intensified .

 Gaining latitude , the system became increasingly organized and reached hurricane status on the evening of June 20 .

 The following morning , Beatriz attained winds of 90 mph ( 150 km / h ) as it passed roughly 15 mi ( 20 km ) of Mexico .

 Due to its interaction with land , the hurricane abruptly weakened hours later .

 Early on June 22 , Beatriz dissipated over open waters .

 Prior to Beatriz 's arrival in Mexico , hurricane watches and warnings were issued for coastal areas .

 Hundreds of shelters opened across the states of Colima and Guerrero .

 Heavy rains from the storm triggered significant flooding along the Sabana River in Acapulco , killing four people .

 However , the overall effects of Beatriz were limited and the rains were largely beneficial in mitigating a severe drought .

 = = Meteorological history = =

 On June 16 , 2011 , a trough situated off the southern coast of Guatemala showed signs of possible tropical cyclogenesis .

 Though located within an area favoring development , the system remained broad and disorganized as it moved slowly west @-@ northwestward .

 Gradually , convection consolidated around an area of low pressure .

 On the following day , the low further developed and was declared Tropical Depression Two @-@ E by the National Hurricane Center at 1500 UTC .

 Upon being declared , the depression was located about 335 mi ( 540 km ) south @-@ southeast of Lázaro Cárdenas , Mexico .

 Three hours after classification , the depression strengthened Tropical Storm Beatriz , the second named storm of the season .

 Early on June 20 , convection increased markedly with several overshooting tops ( denoted by cloud @-@ top temperatures below − 80 ° C ( − 112 ° F ) ) appearing on satellite imagery .

 A notable increase in southerly outflow also took place .

 As the subtropical ridge north of the storm weakened , Beatriz acquired a more northerly component to its track , bringing the center of the storm closer to Mexico .

 Convective bands gradually wrapped around the system throughout the day .

 Early on June 21 , a 23 to 29 mi ( 37 to 47 km ) wide eye developed within the central dense overcast .

 Throughout the morning of June 21 , Beatriz brushed the coast of Mexico , with the center passing roughly 15 mi ( 20 km ) south @-@ southeast of La Fortuna , Mexico .

 Centered just off the coast of Mexico , the system interacted with land and began weakening .

 Hours later , convection rapidly diminished as dry air became entrained in the circulation .

 In response to quick degradation of the system 's structure , the NHC downgraded Beatriz to a tropical storm .

 Rapid weakening continued throughout the day and by the evening hours , the storm no longer had a defined circulation .

 Lacking an organized center and deep convection , the final advisory was issued on Beatriz .

 The storm 's remnants persisted for several more hours before dissipating roughly 175 mi ( 280 km ) southwest of Cabo Corrientes , Mexico .

 = = Preparations and impact = =

 Following the classification of Tropical Depression Two @-@ E on June 19 , the Government of Mexico issued a tropical storm warning for coastal areas between Zihuatanejo and Manzanillo .

 A hurricane watch was also put in place from Tecpán de Galeana to Punta San Telmo .

 Later that morning , all watches and warnings were discontinued in light of Beatriz 's rapid weakening .

 In Colima and Jalisco , residents were warned of heavy rains that could trigger flooding and mudslides .

 Schools across both states canceled classes for June 21 .

 In Colima , 236 shelters were opened to the public .

 An orange @-@ level alert was issued for portions of Chiapas in light of potentially heavy rains .

 Across Guerrero , Beatriz produced heavy rain , peaking at 222 @.@ 5 mm ( 8 @.@ 76 in ) in Copala , Guerrero .

 Several homes across the state were damaged , though none were destroyed .

 In Acapulco , 380 homes were inundated by flood waters , prompting evacuations in areas built in 1999 to relocate residents after Hurricane Pauline .

 Several landslides blocked off roads and a 100 m ( 330 ft ) section of a roundabout was destroyed .

 In the community of Amatillo , three people were killed after being washed away by flood waters .

 Heavy rains from Beatriz caused the Sabana River to overflow its banks , placing 150 homes across 14 colonias under water .

 One person drowned in San Agustín after falling in the swollen river .

 Twenty @-@ seven colonias in and around the city lost power after muddy floodwaters entered a substation .

 Portions of Colima , Chiapas , Michoacán and Jalisco experienced heavy rains ; however , in many areas , the rain proved beneficial in mitigating a severe drought .

 = The Bourgeois Blues =

 It was written in June 1937 in response to the discrimination and segregation that Lead Belly faced during a visit to Washington , DC to record for Alan Lomax .

 It rails against racism , the Jim Crow laws , and the conditions of contemporary African Americans in the southern United States .

 The song was recorded in December 1938 for the Library of Congress and re @-@ recorded in 1939 for commercial release .

 It has been remixed and covered by a number of artists including Pete Seeger , Ry Cooder , Hans Theessink , and Billy Bragg .

 " The Bourgeois Blues " is regarded as one of Lead Belly 's best original works , but it also drew controversy .

 There is doubt over the song 's authorship , with some scholars contending that Lead Belly was unlikely to have written a work in a genre new to him without a collaborator .

 Questions have been raised over his role in the American Communist Party and whether he and the song were used to further the party 's political goals .

 = = Background and creation = =

 Most music historians date the writing of " The Bourgeois Blues " to Lead Belly 's June 1937 trip to Washington , DC , when he was invited by the folklorist Alan Lomax to record for the Library of Congress 's folk music collection .

 Lomax , in some versions of the story described as an unnamed " white friend " , offered to let the couple stay for the night in his apartment near the Supreme Court Building .

 While in Washington , Lead Belly encountered several other incidents of segregation that are believed to have contributed to the impetus of the song .

 Lead Belly was told that if he returned later without Lomax , he would be served .

 In response to one of these incidents , a friend of Lead Belly 's , variously identified as either Lomax or Mary Elizabeth Barnicle joked that Washington was a " bourgeois town .

 The song came together quickly ; one account claims that it only took a few hours for Lead Belly to write it .

 Lomax liked it because it was partly based on what happened in his apartment .

 = = Lyrics , themes and music = =

 It protests against both the city 's Jim Crow laws and the racism of its white population .

 Its structure includes several verses and a refrain that declares that the speaker is going to " spread the news all around " about the racial issues plaguing the city .

 The song , particularly in the refrain , conflates race and economics by referring to Caucasians as " bourgeois " .

 The third verse sarcastically cites " the home of the brave , the land of the Free " , juxtaposed with the mistreatment he received at the hands of white people in Washington , DC .

 The fourth verse speaks of the racism of the white population of the city , leading to the song 's end , which suggests that African Americans boycott buying homes in the district .

 " The Bourgeois Blues " follows a traditional twelve @-@ bar blues format .

 It is written in 44 time but annotated to note that the song rhythmically should swing at medium shuffle .

 The song was written in B ♭ .

 It uses twelve measures with verses one to four repeating , followed by the final two verses and a coda .

 = = Recordings and adaptions = =

 The version that was commercially released features Lead Belly singing and playing the twelve @-@ string guitar without any other accompaniment .

 The song has been covered and reinterpreted by a variety of artists including Pete Seeger and Hans Theessink .

 Seeger recorded and released both live and studio versions of the song on several of his albums .

 In Australia , the song was reworked as " Canberra Blues " by The Bitter Lemons , an R & B band .

 The lyrics speak of the problems faced by young Australians in the Australian Capital Territory in the 1960s .

 Theessink adapted the song to his style of European blues for the album Journey On in 1997 .

 In one verse , Bragg claims that the Iraq War was not for democracy but instead was to " make the world safe for Halliburton " .

 In another , he takes on the Christian right , asking where the moderates are .

 Finally , Bragg chides the United States government for not dealing with poverty at home before going to war .

 = = Legacy = =

 There is disagreement among music scholars as to its importance .

 There is debate over the relationship between the song and radical politics .

 After its release , it became popular with left @-@ wing political groups .

 Lead Belly was invited to perform at Camp Unity , the Communist Party USA 's summer retreat , and the FBI subsequently opened a file on him in the 1940s .

 This led to the accusations that the Communists were taking advantage of him and using him as a platform .

 The party claims , to the contrary , that they were some of the few people who respected him and gave him a chance to perform .

 Jeff Todd Titon and several other writers have suggested that Lead Belly had significant help with its authorship and claim it is not a genuine protest song .

 This theory stems from the idea that Lead Belly did not have a history of protest music before he was discovered by Lomax .

 Lead Belly admitted that the term " bourgeois " was unfamiliar to him , and it seems out of place compared to the vocabulary of his past work .

 = Sorry ( Madonna song ) =

 " Sorry " is a song by American singer Madonna from her tenth studio album Confessions on a Dance Floor ( 2005 ) .

 It was written and produced by Madonna and Stuart Price , and released as the second single from the album on February 7 , 2006 .

 It later appeared on Celebration , her 2009 greatest hits album .

 An uptempo dance song , " Sorry " was one of the first tracks developed for the album and had numerous remix treatments before the ultimate version of the track was finalized .

 One of the remixes was done by the Pet Shop Boys , featuring added lyrics by the band .

 The actual song features a dance groove tempo .

 It talks about personal empowerment and self @-@ sufficiency .

 " Sorry " received positive reviews from contemporary critics , who declared the track the strongest song on Confessions on a Dance Floor .

 Some critics also commented on the song 's disco @-@ influenced beats while comparing it to Madonna 's older dance songs .

 It achieved commercial success , topping the singles charts in Italy , Spain , Romania and the United Kingdom , where it became Madonna 's twelfth number one single .

 It featured Madonna and her dancers roaming around a city in a van , dancing on roller skates and Madonna fighting with a group of men in a cage .

 She performed the song on her 2006 Confessions Tour in a similar fight sequence to that shown in the video .

 An additional video was created as a backdrop for a remix of the song , which depicted political leaders and scenes of war and destruction .

 = = Background and composition = =

 The songs were developed with a remixed perspective in mind .

 So I thought , screw that .

 I 'm going to start from that perspective " .

 It is set in common time with a moderately fast dance groove tempo of 132 beats per minute .

 Composed in the key of C minor , Madonna 's vocal range spans from F3 to G4 .

 It follows the chord progression of E ♭ – Cm – A ♭ – B ♭ during the spoken introduction .

 It then changes to Fm – Gm @-@

 The song talks about personal empowerment and self @-@ sufficiency , denoting a shift in focus of Madonna as an artist from her previous songs about supremacy like " Everybody " ( 1982 ) , " Vogue " ( 1990 ) or " Music " ( 2000 ) which was centered around the subject of music itself .

 The remix had added lyrics sung by band member Neil Tennant which subsequently appeared on their remix album Disco Four .

 Madonna 's voice hits on the first chorus which was remixed to have a masculine synth and a serious hook .

 A breakdown happens before the fifth minute ends , leading to the entry of programmed drum sounds after which the song ends .

 = = Critical response = =

 Vineyard went on to say that it " ... wistfully evokes the sounds of the ' 80s @-@ era dance clubs that first lofted her toward stardom .

 The song was noted by Slant Magazine as one of the best songs of 2006 .

 In a review of " Sorry " from Virgin Media , it wrote that the song 's musicscape features an " infectious combo of pumping , filtered synths and disco beats " . Keith Caulfield from Billboard commented that , " [ Sorry ] should keep fans hung up on Madonna 's ability to create instant radio and club classics . "

 He also called the song " springy " while reviewing the album .

 " Jon Pareles of The New York Times wrote that the first half of the album consists of love songs , happy and sad , and included " Sorry " into the mix .

 Alexis Petridis from The Guardian called the song as triumphant .

 = = Chart performance = =

 The same week it reached a peak of 46 on the Pop 100 chart .

 Its low chart performance in America was attributed to limited radio airplay .

 As of April 2010 , the song has sold 366 @ , @ 000 digital units in the United States .

 In the United Kingdom , it debuted at number one on the chart dated February 26 , 2006 .

 The song became Madonna 's 12th number one single in Britain and second consecutive single from the album to peak the British chart , after " Hung Up . "

 This made Madonna the female artist with most number one songs in the United Kingdom , while placing her in fifth place in overall tabulation .

 In Australia , the song debuted and peaked at four .

 The song peaked at number two on the Canadian Singles Chart and was certified platinum by the Canadian Recording Industry Association ( CRIA ) on April 10 , 2006 for sales of 80 @ ,@ 000 units of paid digital downloads .

 " Sorry " debuted at number five in Ireland and was on the chart for 12 weeks .

 = = Music video = =

 It was directed by Madonna 's longtime choreographer Jamie King and featured choreography from The Talauega Brothers .

 Madonna 's parts in the video were shot first , followed by the shot of the skaters .

 The shoot took place for over two days .

 The video starts with Madonna standing in front of neon lighted screen in a purple leotard uttering " Sorry " in different languages .

 As the music starts she comes out from the gaming parlour of her " Hung Up " video with her dancers .

 They board a van where Madonna and her dancers strip of their clothes into new ones .

 Madonna wears a white leotard with a matching tassled corset with her hair in 1970s retro inspired style and pair of knee high silver platform boots .

 These scenes are interspersed with the scenes of Madonna singing in front of the neon screen .

 The video progresses like this until the intermediate verse whence Madonna is shown standing in a cage opposite to a number of men .

 As the bridge builds up , Madonna starts fighting with the men .

 She starts bending backwards and tying herself in knot like positions , while doing backflips and somersaults which defeats the men .

 The chorus starts again and Madonna and her dancers are shown skating in circles around a roller rink .

 The video ends with the close @-@ up of Madonna in the purple leotard and fades into her silhouette .

 = = Live performances = =

 " Sorry " was performed on the 2006 Confessions Tour as part of the bedouin themed segment .

 The Pet Shop Boys music for the song 's remix start in the background .

 Madonna and her female dancers take to one side of a giant cage and start singing the song .

 As the song progresses to the intermediate verses , Madonna engages in an energetic fight with her male dancers which demonstrated her bending her body and putting her leg over her head and jumping from the cage on a dancer 's back .

 The song was also used as a video backdrop during the interlude between the bedouin and the glam / rock sections .

 Their images flashed across the screen , with text and footage of war atrocities intermingled in between .

 Madonna appears on the screens wearing her " Sorry " video leotard and utters the words " talk is cheap " and " don 't speak " , along with the music and Bush 's lips stuttering .

 The performances of " Sorry " and the remix video was included in The Confessions Tour CD and DVD .

 The Daily Mail called the performance " energetic " . Tom Young from BBC Music called the performance a " delight " but described the video as the " lowlight " of the tour .

 Ed Gonzalez from Slant Magazine wrote that the performance was not among the concert 's highlights .

 However , he commented that the remix backdrop " feels ecstatic [ ... ] a collage of Godardian weight you can dance too " . Thomas Inkseep from Stylus described the song 's performance and remix as " fantastic " .

 = = Track listings and formats = =

 = = Credits and personnel = =

 Madonna – Lead vocals , producer

 Stuart Price – Producer

 Neil Tennant – Supporting vocals

 Guy Oseary – Management

 Goetz Botzenhardt – Mixing

 Giovanni Bianco – Graphic Design , Art Direction

 Orlando Puerta – Remixing , A & R

 Angela Becker – Management

 Ian Green – Programming , Producer

 Paul Oakenfold – Remixing

 Pete Gleadall – Programming

 Steven Klein – Photography

 Pet Shop Boys – Keyboards , Producer , Remixing

 = = Charts = =

 = = Certifications = =

 = High Five Interchange =

 The High Five Interchange is one of the first five @-@ level stack interchanges built in Dallas , Texas .

 The $ 261 million project was started in 2002 and completed in December 2005 .

 It was designed by the HNTB Corporation and built by Zachry Construction Corporation .

 = = Description = =

 It replaces the antiquated three @-@ level , modified cloverleaf interchange built in the 1960s that caused a severe bottleneck by narrowing US 75 down to two lanes at the junction of the two highways .

 The looped ramps of the cloverleaf forced motorists to slow down drastically , backing up traffic .

 Left @-@ hand exits contributed to the congestion .

 Alluding to the celebratory gesture , the " High Five " name refers to the five flyover ramps handling the left @-@ turn movements that tower over the landscape .

 The interchange is as high as a 12 @-@ story building , and includes 43 bridges spread across five levels ( the " High Five " ) , 710 support tiers , and 60 miles of additional highway .

 The highest ramps are 120 feet ( 37 m ) above ground .

 The lanes of US 75 , which are on the bottom level , are 20 feet ( 6 m ) below ground level , giving the structure a total height of 140 feet from bottom to top

 The roads on the five levels are :

 Level I : US 75 , an eight lane highway , four lanes going each way

 Level II :

 Level IV and V : Direct connection ramps ( two levels ) , eliminating the left exits of the modified cloverleaf

 The interchange , with its decorative etchings on precast concrete elements , along with the visually appealing coloration specified by the Texas Department of Transportation ( TxDOT ) , can be regarded as an enormous work of public art .

 The High Five also incorporates a hiking and bike trail , named the Cottonwood Trail , which runs under all levels of the interchange .

 The section of the trail passing beneath the interchange was constructed as part of the High Five project by TxDOT .

 = = History = =

 The High Five Interchange project was planned as a replacement for the existing , antiquated interchange that accommodated 500 @ ,@ 000 vehicles daily and was located in one of the most intensely developed commercial zones in Dallas .

 It was a collaborative project between the TxDOT , affected motorists and property owners , and the primary contractor , Zachry Construction .

 The construction contract for the High Five Interchange was unique in that it contained elements not found in other construction project contracts .

 For example , it specified the concrete maturity method to be used to ensure the concrete 's strength ( the first time TxDOT had ever done so ) , and contained an early completion bonus , a sliding scale of up to $ 11 million if the company completed the contract within four years .

 Also built into the construction contract was a provision that Zachry was charged for " lane rentals " by TxDOT for time they closed down traffic lanes — fees based on hourly assessments and the time of day the lane was closed .

 The fees ranged from $ 50 to a high of $ 110 @ , @ 000 for rush hours .

 Little of the original interchange remained when the project was finished .

 To save time and money , innovative construction methods were employed :

 However , Zachry decided to use precast concrete segmental bridges , rather than casting the bridge elements in place , and used a unique machine , designed and constructed by Deal S.R.L. of Italy and costing about $ 1 million , to move the pieces into place .

 In addition to the construction of 43 permanent bridges , six temporary bridges were built , resulting in 2 @.@ 3 million square feet of bridge deck .

 The project was designed by the HNTB Corporation who provided professional engineering consultation throughout the construction , which had begun in 2002 and was completed in December 2005 , more than 13 months sooner than planned .

 = = Awards = =

 TxDOT as the managing agency , Zachry Construction Corporation as the primary contractor , and HNTB Corporation as the primary consultant received the award in recognition of their cooperative alliance in completing the project .

 = Tim Richmond =

 He competed in IndyCar racing before transferring to NASCAR 's Winston Cup Series ( now Sprint Cup Series ) .

 Richmond was one of the first drivers to change from open wheel racing to NASCAR stock cars full @-@ time , which has since become an industry trend .

 He won the 1980 Indianapolis 500 Rookie of the Year award and had 13 victories during eight NASCAR seasons .

 Richmond achieved his top NASCAR season in 1986 when he finished third in points .

 He won seven races that season , more than any other driver on the tour .

 When he missed the season @-@ opening Daytona 500 in February 1987 , media reported that he had pneumonia .

 The infection most likely resulted from his compromised immune system , which was weakened by AIDS .

 Despite the state of his health , Richmond competed in eight races in 1987 , winning two events and one pole position before his final race in August of that year .

 Tim Richmond filed a lawsuit against NASCAR after NASCAR insisted they wanted access to his entire medical record before they would reinstate him , after losing the lawsuit , Richmond withdrew from racing .

 NASCAR later stated their original test was a " Bad Test . "

 Richmond grew up in a wealthy family and lived a freewheeling lifestyle , earning him the nickname " Hollywood " .

 When Richmond was cast for a bit part in the 1983 movie Stroker Ace , " He fell right in with the group working on the film , " said director Hal Needham .

 Cole Trickle , the main character in the movie Days of Thunder , played by Tom Cruise , was loosely based on Richmond and his interaction with Harry Hyde and Rick Hendrick .

 = = Early life = =

 Richmond grew up in Ashland , Ohio .

 His parents , Al and Evelyn ( née Warner ) Richmond , met in the course of their work .

 Al was a welder for pipe construction companies and Evelyn was a field office manager .

 Noticing that highway crews had to dig up the entire highway to lay pipe , Al designed a machine to bore underneath the highway .

 To market this invention , he founded Richmond Manufacturing , which eventually exported machines worldwide .

 Tim 's driving days started as a toddler when he was given a go @-@ kart that he often drove inside buildings and across his lawn .

 He later raced the kart at tracks in Moreland and New Pittsburg .

 During his years in Miami , Tim and his mother moved to Florida and his father stayed in Ohio .

 While home in Ohio over a summer break , he met local drag racer Raymond Beadle through lifelong friend Fred Miller .

 When Richmond reached age 16 , his parents purchased him a Pontiac Trans Am , a speedboat and a Piper Cherokee airplane for his birthday .

 Yet his mother Evelyn often worried about spoiling her only son .

 I ruined him , I admit it .

 He was my whole life . "

 Richmond excelled in sports ; he set a conference record in high hurdles and his high school football career was stellar enough that the academy retired his sports jersey after his gridiron days were over .

 Miami Military Academy named him Athlete of the Year in 1970 .

 Richmond 's other interests included flying , and he earned his private pilot license at age 16 .

 Following high school graduation , Richmond attended Ashland University for about one year before dropping out .

 = = Racing career = =

 A friend of Richmond 's father co @-@ owned a sprint car and Richmond joined the team as a crew member for Dave Shoemaker .

 In his first competition at the track , officials placed Richmond in the slowest heat .

 He passed several cars before spinning out and breaking an axle .

 Although he made several attempts to get the car pointed in the right direction , the broken axle prevented the car from driving straight .

 After being towed to the pits , he parked the car for the rest of the event .

 In response , Richmond 's father fired him as the driver .

 The next season , Al Richmond bought a SuperModified better suited to his son 's driving style .

 In 1977 Tim Richmond became both Sandusky Speedway 's Rookie of the Year and the SuperModified class track champion .

 Richmond returned to racing sprint cars in the United States Automobile Club 's ( USAC ) national sprint car tour in 1978 .

 Competing in 12 races , he finished 30th in points as the series ' Rookie of the Year .

 That year he attended Jim Russell 's road racing school at Willow Springs International Motorsports Park , setting a student course record .

 Richmond raced in a 1978 Mini Indy car event at Phoenix International Raceway , winning the Formula Super Vee support event in a Lola T620 .

 The win attracted sponsors and attention from major owners like Roger Penske .

 He also competed in USAC 's Silver Crown series .

 Richmond 's father bought an Eagle Indy Car chassis and an Offenhauser engine for the 1979 race at Michigan International Speedway .

 The race ended for him when his motor blew up on the fourth lap , and he finished last ( 23rd ) .

 Owner Pat Santello was looking for a driver to replace Larry Rice for his CART team at the following race at Watkins Glen International , so he gave Richmond a test at Willow Spring where he had previously set the student record .

 Santello hired Richmond , who then qualified 15th fastest for the event and finished in eighth place , the best of his Indy Car career .

 Richmond raced in three more events that season .

 After crashing during the first day of qualifying for the 1980 Indianapolis 500 , Richmond nevertheless obtained the 19th starting position in the race .

 To the delight of the crowd , winner Johnny Rutherford gave him a ride back to the pits .

 I was afraid my racing career would come to a halt .

 = = = NASCAR = = =

 Pocono Raceway President Joseph Mattioli III convinced Richmond to make the change to stock car racing on the NASCAR circuit .

 Richmond made his first NASCAR start two months after winning the Indianapolis 500 Rookie of the Year award .

 He debuted at the Coca @-@ Cola 500 at Pocono on July 27 , 1980 , finishing 12th in a D. K. Ulrich @-@ owned Chevrolet .

 That season , he competed in five events , with two DNFs ( did not finish ) and three 12th @-@ place finishes .

 Overall , he finished the 1980 season 41st in points .

 Richmond raced for three teams in 1981 .

 He started the season by competing in 15 events for Ulrich .

 After Kennie Childers hired him away from Ulrich mid @-@ season , Richmond had top 10 finishes at Pocono and Bristol .

 For the final seven races of the season , he drove for Bob Rogers and had a top 10 finish at Dover International Speedway .

 Overall for the season , Richmond had six top 10 finishes to place 16th in season points .

 Richmond started 1982 without a ride before getting a one @-@ race deal to drive for Billie Harvey at the Rockingham track .

 Richmond completed 112 laps of the 492 @-@ lap event to finish 31st , retiring from the race with engine problems .

 For the following event , Richmond was hired to drive J.D. Stacy 's No. 2 car .

 In his first race for the team , Richmond earned his first career top 5 finish when he placed fifth at Darlington Raceway .

 Returning to Pocono , he finished second , before winning his first race on the road course at Riverside , California the following week .

 Later that season , he earned his first pole position at Bristol .

 The tour returned to Riverside for the final race of the season where Richmond won his second race , sweeping both events at the track .

 Benny Parsons said that " watching Richmond go through the Esses was unbelievable " .

 For the season , Richmond had twelve top 10s , two wins , and one pole to finish 26th in points .

 In 1983 , Richmond began racing for Raymond Beadle whom he had known before he started racing .

 He returned to the three @-@ cornered Pocono racetrack , earning his first oval victory .

 During the season , he accumulated four pole positions ( Darlington , Pocono , Charlotte , and Atlanta ) , one win ( Pocono ) , and fifteen top 10s on his way to finishing tenth in season points .

 Esquire magazine named Richmond as one of " the best of the new generation " in 1984 .

 That year he had one win at North Wilkesboro Speedway and second @-@ place finishes at Dover , Darlington and Riverside .

 Richmond finished the 1984 season 12th in points , with 11 finishes in the top 10 and in six in the top 5 .

 He ended the season 11th in points with 13 Top 10s in 28 races .

 Richmond joined Hendrick Motorsports in 1986 , where he teamed up with veteran crew chief Harry Hyde .

 It took the team until the middle of the season to gel .

 Richmond had suffered a 64 @-@ race winless streak that was finally broken at the Van Scoy Diamond Mine 500 at Pocono in June 1986 .

 That race saw a caution for rain with five laps left before the halfway point .

 NASCAR wanted the cars to get to the halfway point to make the race official , so the sanctioning body had the drivers slowly circle the track .

 It took the drivers 26 minutes to complete the laps , and the rain was so heavy that some drivers had to look out their side windows because they could not see out their windshields .

 Two hours later , the track had dried and the race resumed with Richmond in third .

 After Richmond 's car was adjusted to remove the " push " , the car was more to his liking .

 Hyde worried that Richmond had stopped a lap too early to ensure that he would have enough fuel to make it to the end .

 After Richmond took the lead with 30 laps left in the race , Dale Earnhardt made up three seconds on Richmond 's five @-@ second lead .

 With four laps to go , Buddy Arrington spun in a three @-@ car accident .

 The remaining laps of the race where completed slowly under caution and Richmond took the checkered flag for the victory .

 He had led 97 laps , including the final 30 , taking his first victory in a Rick Hendrick car .

 The tour returned to Pocono a month later , and Richmond battled for another victory in a fog @-@ shortened event .

 In the final 8 @-@ lap sprint , Richmond competed in a three @-@ car battle with Geoff Bodine and Ricky Rudd .

 Richmond crossed the finish line beside Rudd , winning the race by 0 @.@ 05 seconds .

 He notched four more victories that season , and over a span of twelve races , Richmond earned three second @-@ place finishes , and six wins .

 The National Motorsports Press Association named him Co @-@ Driver of the Year with Earnhardt after Richmond accumulated 13 top 5 finishes and 16 in the top 10 .

 = = Illness and death = =

 Richmond fell ill the day after the 1986 NASCAR annual banquet during a promotional trip to New York .

 Media later reported that he had tested positive for acquired immune deficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) .

 He returned to Pocono for the Miller High Life 500 during the middle of the year .

 Starting third , he led by the fifth lap and ultimately led 82 laps , including the final 46 , to win the race by eight car @-@ lengths over Bill Elliott .

 In the middle of the race , Richmond 's car suffered gearbox problems .

 Because he could use only fourth ( high ) gear , he had to use that gear to slowly exit the pits .

 Richmond was emotional after the victory , saying , " I had tears in my eyes when I took the checkered flag .

 He resigned from Hendrick Motorsports in September 1987 .

 Although Richmond attempted a comeback in 1988 , NASCAR suspended him for testing positive for banned substances .

 The substances were identified as Sudafed , a non @-@ prescription over @-@ the @-@ counter allergy medication , and Advil , an over @-@ the @-@ counter pain reliever .

 In April 1988 , Richmond sued NASCAR over the suspension .

 In his final public appearance in February 1988 , Richmond denied that he abused drugs and said that a mistake had been made in his drug test .

 His suit with NASCAR was settled out @-@ of @-@ court , the terms sealed .

 Richmond withdrew into his condo in Florida .

 There were by then rumors of HIV and AIDS , which he denied .

 He was later hospitalized in West Palm Beach .

 ESPN sent a get @-@ well @-@ soon card to Richmond when it aired the July 1989 NASCAR race at Pocono .

 The television network showed highlights of Richmond 's victory at the track from 1986 . "

 Tim had Hollywood good looks and the charisma of Tom Cruise , " said his friend Dr. Jerry Punch . "

 "

 On August 13 , 1989 , Richmond died at the age of 34 , about two years after his final NASCAR race .

 He was buried in Ashland , Ohio .

 The secrecy surrounding the circumstance of his death caused speculation for several days .

 At the time , Punch stated that Richmond had been hospitalized due to a motorcycle accident , though it is unlikely that Richmond had the strength to ride a motorcycle during his last months .

 Richmond 's physician , Dr. David Dodson , said : " There 's no way of knowing who that woman was .

 Tim was a celebrity with a lot of charisma , a handsome guy .

 = = Legacy = =

 Baskin reported that sealed court documents and interviews showed Tennant and NASCAR used " allegedly false drug @-@ test results in 1988 to bar Richmond from racing " . Baskin also stated that NASCAR had targeted Richmond , requesting that Tennant establish a substance @-@ abuse policy with Richmond in mind .

 A series of drug tests and falsely reported positive results shortly before the 1988 Daytona 500 kept Richmond from driving in what was to have been his last big race ... " , the report said .

 The New York Times published the findings .

 While neither Tennant nor NASCAR supplied an official response at the time , NASCAR did confirm that they were seeking to replace Tennant .

 The Ashland County Sports Hall of Fame inducted Richmond in their second class in 1996 .

 In 1998 , NASCAR named Richmond one of its 50 greatest drivers of all time .

 He was inducted into the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 2002 .

 The Mansfield Motorsports Park ARCA

 Re / Max Series race in 2009 was named the Tim Richmond Memorial ARCA Re / Max 250 in honor of the area native .

 The race at Mansfield was co @-@ promoted by Mattioli 's son Joseph Mattioli III .

 = = Motorsports career results = =

 = = = NASCAR = = =

 ( key ) ( Bold – Pole position awarded by qualifying time .

 Italics – Pole position earned by points standings or practice time . * – Most laps led . )

 = = = = Winston Cup Series = = = =

 = = = = Busch Series = = = =

 = Trout Creek Mountains =

 The mountains are characteristic of the Great Basin 's topography of mostly parallel mountain ranges alternating with flat valleys .

 Oriented generally north to south , the Trout Creek Mountains consist primarily of fault blocks of basalt , which came from an ancient volcano and other vents , on top of older metamorphic rocks .

 The southern end of the range , however , features many granitic outcrops .

 As a whole , the faulted terrain is dominated by rolling hills and ridges cut by escarpments and canyons .

 Most of the range is public land administered by the federal Bureau of Land Management .

 There is very little human development in the remote region — cattle grazing and ranching are the primary human uses — but former mines at the McDermitt Caldera produced some of the largest amounts of mercury in North America in the 20th century .

 Public lands in the mountains are open to recreation but are rarely visited .

 Despite the area 's dry climate , a few year @-@ round streams provide habitat for the rare Lahontan cutthroat trout .

 Fish populations in the Trout Creek Mountains declined throughout much of the 20th century .

 In the 1980s , the effects of grazing allotments on riparian zones and the fish led to land @-@ use conflict .

 The Trout Creek Mountain Working Group was formed in 1988 to help resolve disagreements among livestock owners , environmentalists , government agencies , and other interested parties .

 = = Geography = =

 The mountains are about 150 miles ( 240 km ) directly southwest of Boise , Idaho , and about 190 miles ( 310 km ) northeast of Reno , Nevada .

 The range and surrounding non @-@ mountainous areas cover an area of 811 square miles ( 2 @ , @ 100 km2 ) .

 The mountains run 51 miles ( 82 km ) north to south and 36 miles ( 58 km ) east to west .

 More of the range is in Oregon ( 78 % ) than in Nevada ( 22 % ) .

 The Bilk Creek Mountains in both Oregon and Nevada border the Trout Creek Mountains on the southwest ; the two ranges are separated by Log Cabin Creek and South Fork Cottonwood Creek .

 The terrain in the Trout Creek Mountains varies from broad , flat basins and rolling ridges to high rock escarpments cut by deep canyons .

 The canyons have steep walls with loose talus slopes at the bottoms .

 There are meadows around springs in the mountains , although most streams in the range do not flow year @-@ round .

 Major streams that flow off the north slopes of the mountains include ( from west to east ) Cottonwood Creek , Trout Creek , Willow Creek , and Whitehorse Creek .

 These streams all flow into endorheic basins in Harney County , Oregon .

 Trout Creek and Whitehorse Creek are the largest of the four .

 The Kings River and McDermitt Creek each drain an area on the south slopes of the Trout Creek Mountains .

 The Kings River begins in The Granites and flows south into Nevada , where it meets the Quinn River , which evaporates in the Black Rock Desert .

 McDermitt Creek begins in Oregon a few miles north of The Granites and flows generally east , crossing the Oregon – Nevada border five times before disappearing into the floor of the Quinn River Valley south of McDermitt .

 = = Geology = =

 The mountains lie within the Basin and Range Province or Great Basin of the Western United States , which is characterized by a series of parallel fault blocks that form long north – south mountain ranges separated by wide , high @-@ desert valleys .

 The Trout Creek Mountains are uplifted and tilted blocks with steep escarpments along the southern and eastern sides of the range .

 These granite outcrops are commonly found in the eroded valleys below the volcanic ridgelines .

 The Trout Creek Mountains are composed mostly of basalt from a shield volcano that once stood where Steens Mountain is today .

 Crustal thinning and the Yellowstone hotspot , which was then beneath southeastern Oregon , induced eruptions from Steens and nearby vents about 17 million years ago , in the Miocene .

 The vents produced a series of lava flows that spread across the land now known as the Trout Creek Mountains .

 Eruptions from the Steens volcano lasted for about one million years , and at least 70 separate lava flows occurred .

 Under the resulting basalt rock lie much older metamorphic rocks that may be related to some of the Triassic age formations of the Blue Mountains in northeastern Oregon .

 Within these metamorphic rocks are diorite and granodiorite intrusive bodies which were presumably intruded during the Cretaceous Period .

 The lava dome was created by volcanic eruptions in the early Miocene .

 A total of five large ash flows were produced along with a large rhyolite dome structure .

 The caldera formed when the dome collapsed about 16 million years ago .

 The caldera contains significant ore deposits , and mercury and uranium have been mined at eight or more sites in and around the caldera .

 Other areas in the caldera were mined for ores of antimony , cesium , and lithium .

 = = Climate = =

 Much of the annual precipitation occurs between the beginning of March and the end of June .

 Most of the rest falls as snow during the fall and winter months .

 Local flooding often occurs in the spring as the snowpack melts .

 Brief , intense thunderstorms are common between April and October .

 Thunderstorms in the summer months tend to be more isolated and often produce dry lightning strikes .

 = = Ecology = =

 = = = Flora = = =

 Vegetation in the Trout Creek Mountains is dominated by big sagebrush and desert grasses .

 Other common shrubs include bitterbrush , snowberry , and Ceanothus .

 There are also patches of mountain mahogany in some areas .

 Less than one percent of the range consists of meadow wetlands and riparian greenways ( vegetation along stream banks ) .

 However , these areas are vital to the local ecosystem .

 Narrow riparian greenways follow the year @-@ round streams .

 Many greenway areas have quaking aspen and willow groves .

 Cottonwood and alder groves can be found at lower elevations where terrain is flatter and stream channels are wider .

 Sedges and rushes are also native to these stream bottoms .

 Years of heavy livestock grazing in parts of the range resulted in the loss of some grass species , riparian vegetation , and young aspen and willow trees .

 Restoration of riparian areas began in the early 1970s , and plans to reduce grazing were implemented in the 1980s and early 1990s .

 However , large wildfires in southeastern Oregon during the summer of 2012 burned much of the range 's vegetation , damaging riparian ecosystems and killing hundreds of grazing cattle .

 = = = Fauna = = =

 Animals in the Trout Creek Mountains are adapted to the environment of the High Desert .

 Pronghorn are common in the open , sagebrush @-@ covered basins , while mule deer live in the cottonwood and willow groves .

 There are also bighorn sheep , cougars , and bobcats in the high country .

 Jackrabbits and coyotes are prevalent throughout the range .

 Mustangs sometimes pass through the mountains as they roam the Great Basin .

 Some other mammals include the northern pocket gopher , mountain cottontail , and Belding 's ground squirrel .

 North American beavers live in and along streams , as do Pacific tree frogs , western spadefoot toads , and garter snakes .

 Lahontan cutthroat trout live in small , isolated populations that are often confined to individual streams , many of them in the Trout Creek Mountains .

 These populations have significant genetic differences due to their history of isolation .

 For most of the 20th century , the trout 's numbers declined considerably .

 Reasons for the fish 's decline included habitat degradation from cattle grazing , drought , overfishing , competition with other fish , and hybridization with introduced rainbow trout , which decreased the number of genetically pure Lahontan cutthroat trout .

 However , reductions in cattle grazing in riparian zones since the 1980s allowed fish habitat and populations to start to recover .

 = = Human uses = =

 The Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) administers most land in the Trout Creek Mountains , but there are also some private lands and some roads in the area .

 The private lands are mainly used for ranching along mountain streams , while the BLM lands include large grazing allotments for local ranchers ' cattle .

 The two leading mercury @-@ producing mines in North America were the Cordero and McDermitt mines on the edge of the caldera in Nevada .

 Together , they operated from 1933 to 1989 .

 The McDermitt Mine , the last mercury mine in the United States , closed three years later , in 1992 .

 Camping , hunting , fishing , and hiking are the most popular activities .

 Hunters come to the mountains seeking trophy mule deer , pronghorn , chukars , and rabbits .

 Fishing on some streams is sometimes permitted on a catch @-@ and @-@ release basis .

 The mountains are also suitable for hiking cross @-@ country or on game trails in natural corridors along canyons and creek bottoms .

 There are more than 100 archaeological sites in the range that document use by Northern Paiute people as long as 7 @ , @ 000 years ago .

 Cattle grazing in the Trout Creek Mountains began in the late 19th century , and the BLM currently oversees grazing allotments in the area .

 Cattle can be found grazing in some areas during the spring and summer months .

 The effects of grazing on the local environment were the subject of controversy in the 1980s .

 = = Land @-@ management compromise = =

 As a result , stream banks were eroding and upland vegetation was encroaching into riparian zones .

 Aspen populations declined as grazing cattle eliminated young trees , decreasing shade over streams and raising water temperatures .

 These conditions put the rare Lahontan cutthroat trout population at risk .

 Since the Lahontan was officially designated as a threatened species , environmental groups began advocating the cancellation of grazing permits in the Trout Creek Mountains .

 Beginning in the early 1970s , the Bureau of Land Management identified damaged riparian zones and began projects to restore natural habitat in those areas .

 Next , the agency sought to reform land @-@ use plans to change grazing practices , which became a complex and controversial project .

 As environmentalists pressed the BLM to close much of the Trout Creek Mountains to grazing , frustrated ranchers joined the Sagebrush Rebellion seeking to protect their grazing allotments .

 Initially , it appeared that the issue of grazing in the range would produce prolonged litigation with appeals potentially lasting decades .

 The group 's goal was to find a solution acceptable to everyone — a plan that would protect both the land 's ecological health and ranchers ' economic needs .

 Initial members of the Trout Creek Mountain Working Group included :

 Over the next several years , the group continued to meet and discuss options for restoring the land while meeting the economic needs of local ranchers .

 Meetings were all open to the public .

 The group eventually endorsed a grazing management plan that provided for both the ecological health of sensitive riparian areas and the economic well @-@ being of ranchers .

 In 1989 , the Whitehorse Ranch agreed to rest two grazing allotments totaling 50 @ , @ 000 acres ( 20 @ , @ 000 ha ) to restore critical stream greenways and mountain pastures .

 The ranch 's allotment on Fifteen Mile Creek was rested for three years , and its Willow Creek pasture received a five @-@ year rest before grazing was resumed .

 Finally , sensitive areas were fenced to protect them from cattle , and additional water sources were constructed away from streams .

 Other ranches also agreed to rest specific pastures including the Trout Creek , Cottonwood Creek , and Whitehorse Butte allotments .

 In 1991 , the Bureau of Land Management approved a new grazing allotment management plan .

 It was based on the agreements made by the Trout Creek Mountain Working Group , and it took effect in 1992 .

 Since then , vegetation in riparian areas of the Trout Creek Mountains has recovered , and studies by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service have found that the Lahontan cutthroat trout population , still listed as threatened , is also recovering .

 = Mycena inclinata =

 Mycena inclinata , commonly known as the clustered bonnet or the oak @-@ stump bonnet cap , is a species of mushroom in the family Mycenaceae .

 The gills are pale brown to pinkish , and the spore print is white .

 British mycologist E.J.H. Corner has described two varieties of the mushroom from Borneo .

 Lookalike species with which M. inclinata may be confused include M. galericulata and M. maculata .

 = = Taxonomy , phylogeny , and naming = =

 Mycena galericulata var .

 calopus ( named by Karsten in 1879 ) , and its basionym Agaricus galericulatus var .

 calopus ( named by Fries in 1873 ) , are synonyms .

 The specific epithet inclinata means " bent in " .

 = = Description = =

 Initially conic to bell @-@ shaped to convex , it flattens during maturity , developing visible surface grooves corresponding to the gills underneath the cap .

 The margin of the cap has minute but distinct scallops .

 The surface is moist and smooth , and hygrophanous .

 The cap frequently develops splits in the margin , or cracks in the disc ( the central part of the cap ) .

 The flesh of the cap is thick in the center but thin elsewhere , grayish to whitish , fragile , and with a slightly mealy odor and taste .

 The gills have a decurrent attachment to the stem ( that is , running down the length of the stem ) and are a pale brownish color with tinges of red .

 They are broad ( between 3 and 6 mm ) , and have a close to subdistant spacing , with about 26 – 35 gills reaching the stem .

 The lower portion of young stems is covered with white flecks .

 The edibility of the mushroom is " doubtful " and consumption " best avoided " .

 The spores are 7 – 9 by 5 – 6 @.@ 5 μm , broadly ellipsoid , smooth , and strongly amyloid ( it turns black when treated with Melzer 's reagent ) .

 The basidia ( spore @-@ bearing cells ) are four @-@ spored .

 The pleurocystidia ( cystidia on the gill face ) are not differentiated .

 The cheilocystidia ( cystidia on the gill edge ) are embedded in the gill edge and very inconspicuous , club @-@ shaped , 26 – 36 by 5 – 10 μm , and have tips that are covered with contorted projections that can be slender or thick .

 The flesh of the gills is homogeneous , and pale yellowish to dirty brown when stained in iodine .

 The flesh of the cap has a distinct pellicle , a well @-@ differentiated hypoderm ( a region of tissue immediately under the pellicle ) , and a filamentous tramal body ( gill tissue ) ; it is pale yellowish to sordid brownish in iodine stain .

 = = = Varieties = = =

 E.J.H. Corner defined the varieties M. inclinata var .

 kinabaluensis and var .

 subglobospora in his 1994 publication on Agaric mushrooms of Malesia , a biogeographical region straddling the boundary of the Indomalaya and Australasia ecozones .

 The variety kinabaluensis ( named after its type locality , Kinabalu ) has a cap margin that is not scalloped , little or no odor , and cheilocystidia with shorter processes .

 It was found growing on the dead wood of Lithocarpus havilandii , a stone oak tree in the beech family .

 Variety subglobospora , found in Sabah , has spores that are almost spherical .

 Mycena maculata bears some resemblance to M. inclinata , but is only associated with decaying hardwood logs and stumps , and is found in eastern North America , and sometimes on oak on the West Coast .

 In age , it develops reddish spots on the gills that are not seen in M. inclinata .

 M. inclinata is often confused with the edible M. galericulata , a common species that is variable in cap color , size and shape .

 M. galericulata typically has a bluntly conical cap that is dull gray @-@ brown , and white to grayish veins that have numerous cross @-@ veins .

 M. polygramma has a ridged stem that is bluish @-@ gray .

 = = Habitat and distribution = =

 It accomplishes this by producing enzymes capable of breaking down the three major biochemical components of plant cell walls found in litter : cellulose , hemicellulose and lignin .

 The fruit bodies of Mycena inclinata grow in dense groups or clusters on decaying hardwood logs and stumps ( especially oak and chestnut ) during the spring and autumn .

 The fungus forms a white , woolly mycelium on the surface of decomposing oak leaves .

 It has been found in Oregon , but the species appears to be generally rare along the Pacific Coast .

 = = Chemistry = =

 In a study of the trace metal concentrations of various mushrooms species found in Ordu ( Turkey ) , M. inclinata was found to have comparatively high levels of iron ( 628 mg per kg ) and nickel ( 21 @.@ 6 mg / kg ) , measured on a dry weight basis .

 Laboratory studies have shown that the fungus is resistant to aluminum .

 The fungus has been investigated for its ability to decolorize synthetic dyes that are used in the textile , plastics , biomedical and foodstuff industries .

 The dyes are not readily biodegradable , and when discharged into the environment are persistent and many are toxic .

 = Capel Lligwy =

 = = History and location = =

 The oldest parts of Capel Lligwy date from the first half of the 12th century .

 This was a time when many churches on Anglesey in north @-@ west Wales were first built in stone following the end of Viking raids and attempts by the Normans to gain control of the island .

 The reason for its construction , and the saint to whom it was dedicated , are unknown .

 Yates and Longley , authors of a 2001 guide to ancient Anglesey monuments , note that it was built in the large parish of Penrhos Lligwy and was perhaps intended to serving the expanding population in medieval times .

 Despite this , it seems to have remained as a chapel of ease rather than become a parish church in its own right .

 The walls were partially rebuilt in the 14th century , and the upper parts of the walls date from this time .

 A chapel was added to the south side of the building in the 16th century .

 A vault under the south chapel was used to bury members of a local family , the Pierce Lloyds .

 For a time , Capel Lligwy was used as a private place of worship for Lligwy House , a " venerable mansion " once owned by the Lloyd family which came into the possession of William Irby , 1st Baron Boston , in the 18th century .

 The walls remain to gable level , with some traces of render on the inside , but the roof has gone .

 It is cared for by Cadw , the Welsh Assembly Government body responsible for the built heritage of Wales , and is open to the public .

 = = Architecture and fittings = =

 There is a stone bellcote at the west end .

 There are no window openings on the north side , but there is a blocked opening to the east ( about 5 feet ( 1 @.@ 5 m ) wide ) and there are the remains of a window on the south wall .

 There is a blocked window in the south wall of the south chapel .

 The vault , which is about 27 square feet ( 2 @.@ 5 m 2 ) , is reached by stone steps from inside the south chapel .

 Limestone slabs form the roof of the vault and the floor of the chapel above .

 = = Assessment = =

 Capel Lligwy has national recognition and statutory protection from alteration as it has been designated as a Grade II listed building – the lowest of the three grades of listing , designating " buildings of special interest , which warrant every effort being made to preserve them " .

 The 19th @-@ century antiquarian Angharad Llwyd mentioned the church in her history of Anglesey .

 She recounted that a fox had once taken shelter in the ruins , and when it was dug out , the vault was discovered , " containing several human skeletons , which crumbled into dust , when exposed to the air " .

 She added that further exploration of the vault then revealed " a large mass of human bones , several feet in depth " .

 A 1990 book about abandoned churches in Wales refers to the ancient monuments in this part of Anglesey , and calls Capel Lligwy a " medieval gesture of Christian power in a land so obviously imbued with the spirit of a pagan past " .

 "

 = 2011 – 12 Michigan Wolverines men 's basketball team =

 The 2011 – 12 Michigan Wolverines men 's basketball team represented the University of Michigan during the 2011 – 12 NCAA Division I men 's basketball season .

 The team played its home games in Ann Arbor , Michigan at Crisler Center for the 45th consecutive year .

 It had a seating capacity of 12 @ , @ 721 .

 Burke was named Big Ten Freshman of the Year and was Michigan 's first Associated Press All @-@ American honoree since 1998 .

 The team 's season began with a preseason media day and practices in October 2011 .

 Day for the first time in a game against Ohio State .

 It was the eighth time a Big Ten team hosted the show , which began in 2005 .

 The team was undefeated at home until its last home game of the season .

 Michigan lost in the semifinals of the 2012 Big Ten Conference Tournament and bowed out in the second round of the 2012 NCAA Tournament to end the season with a 24 @-@ 10 record .

 The team won the school 's first Big Ten Conference Championship since the 1985 – 86 season and had the school 's best Big Ten record ( 13 – 5 ) since the 1993 – 94 season .

 = = Preseason = =

 Max Bielfeldt committed to Michigan in April despite his family 's ties to the Illinois Fighting Illini .

 Illinois University 's Bielfeldt Athletic Administration Building was endowed by his family .

 Sai Tummala , who along with Bielfeldt was recruited by Ivy League schools , rounded out the incoming class .

 Tummala earned an academic scholarship and was considered a walk @-@ on candidate for the basketball team .

 Tim Hardaway , Jr . , son of former NBA All @-@ Star Tim Hardaway , returned to the team .

 Freshmen All @-@ America and Team USA FIBA U19 honoree .

 Jordan Dumars , the son of Detroit Pistons All @-@ Star Joe Dumars , left the team , citing nagging knee issues .

 = = Roster = =

 Peter Kahler was the team 's video coordinator .

 = = Schedule and results = =

 Michigan announced its 14 @-@ game non @-@ conference schedule on August 1 , 2011 .

 Michigan came in third place in the three @-@ game 2011 Maui Invitational Tournament between November 21 – 23 .

 Tim Hardaway , Jr. was named the Big Ten Player of the Week , and Trey Burke was named Big Ten Freshman of the Week .

 In an ACC – Big Ten Challenge game in late November , Michigan lost to Virginia 70 – 58 .

 In its next game , Michigan defeated Iowa State 76 – 66 .

 On December 10 , 2011 , Michigan beat Oakland 90 – 80 , its highest @-@ scoring game since beating Northern Michigan 97 @-@ 50 on November 14 , 2009 .

 Burke earned his second Freshman of the Week honor on December 12 after scoring a season @-@ high 20 points and nine assists in the game .

 On December 29 against Penn State he posted 13 points , seven assists , five rebounds and no turnovers .

 On January 1 , 2012 , he added a career @-@ high 27 points on 8 @-@ for @-@ 11 shooting with three rebounds and three assists against Minnesota to earn Big Ten Conference Player of the Week the following day .

 On January 19 , Michigan became the leader in the conference with a 5 – 2 record , thanks to conference wins over ranked Wisconsin and Michigan State teams .

 Michigan remained in first place until losing to Ohio State ten days later .

 The team went 5 @-@ 2 in conference in February , including wins over ranked Indiana and Ohio State teams .

 During the game , Michigan 's 30th of the season , Trey Burke broke Gary Grant 's school freshman assists record , set over the course of 30 games in the 1984 @-@ 85 season , by pushing his total to 143 .

 In the first game of the 2012 Big Ten Conference Men 's Basketball Tournament against Minnesota , Burke led the team to victory with a career @-@ high 30 points .

 Burke 's total was a school record for the Big Ten Conference Men 's Basketball Tournament .

 Burke became Michigan 's first Associated Press All @-@ American honoree since Robert Traylor and Louis Bullock in 1998 .

 Stu Douglass concluded the season as the school 's all @-@ time leader in games played , with 136 .

 He surpassed Loy Vaught , who played in 135 games .

 Burke had a school record @-@ setting freshman season in assists , ending the year with 156 .

 = = Statistics = =

 The team posted the following statistics :

 = = Rankings = =

 = = Watchlists and awards = =

 = = = Preseason = = =

 = = = In @-@ season = = =

 Trey Burke was one of nearly 60 Bob Cousy Award candidates named in December 2011 .

 On January 4 , Burke was one of 20 finalists .

 On January 25 , Novak was named one of ten finalists for the Lowe 's Senior CLASS Award along with three other Big Ten athletes .

 He was also one of four Big Ten men 's basketball players named Academic All @-@ District , putting him among the 40 finalists for the 15 @-@ man Academic All @-@ America team .

 Novak was named a third team Academic All @-@ American .

 = = = Accolades and honors = = =

 Trey Burke

 CBSSports.com

 Second Team All @-@ American

 Big Ten Freshman of the Year ( Big Ten media )

 Co @-@ Big Ten Freshman of the Year ( Sporting News )

 All @-@ Big Ten ( second team , coaches and media )

 All @-@ Freshman ( unanimous )

 USBWA All @-@ District V Team

 Tim Hardaway

 All @-@ Big Ten ( third team , coaches and media )

 Zack Novak

 Academic All @-@ District

 Academic All @-@ American ( third team )

 All @-@ Big Ten ( honorable mention , media )

 Academic All @-@ Big Ten

 Josh Bartelstein

 Academic All @-@ Big Ten

 Matt Vogrich

 Academic All @-@ Big Ten

 = = Roster changes = =

 The team lost senior captains Stu Douglass and Zack Novak as well as senior reserve Corey Person to graduation following the season .

 Person was later granted an extra year of eligibility to return to the team .

 At the end of the season , three players ( Evan Smotrycz , Carlton Brundidge and Colton Christian ) decided to leave the program .

 Following the season , Trey Burke first said he was not inclined to enter the 2012 NBA Draft .

 A few days later , however , the realization that the pool of point guards in the 2012 draft was shallow and Burke 's stock was high led to some deliberation for him and his family :

 They think their ceiling is higher when they 're young .

 Trey had ... a solid season for a freshman .

 It 's going to be one of the weaker point guard drafts in years . "

 Some observers thought Burke was at his peak in terms of NBA potential .

 Eventually , he decided to return to play for Michigan for another year .

 = = = 2012 – 13 team recruits = = =

 Canadian wing guard Nik Stauskas gave Michigan its second verbal commitment for the class of 2012 on March 26 , 2011 .

 Within hours of the commitment , ESPN said that Michigan 's ranked as the fifth @-@ best class in the nation .

 All three signed a National Letter of Intent with the team on November 9 .

 Michael " Spike " Albrecht committed to Michigan on April 6 , 2012 .

 = = Team Players Drafted into the NBA = =

 = Upsilon Andromedae b =

 Upsilon Andromedae b ( abbreviated υ Andromedae b , υ And b ) , occasionally designated Upsilon Andromedae

 The planet orbits the Solar twin star , Upsilon Andromedae A , approximately every five days .

 Discovered in June 1996 by Geoffrey Marcy and R. Paul Butler , it was one of the first hot Jupiters to be discovered .

 It is also one of the first non @-@ resolved planets to be detected directly .

 In July 2014 the International Astronomical Union launched a process for giving proper names to certain exoplanets and their host stars .

 The process involved public nomination and voting for the new names .

 In December 2015 , the IAU announced the winning name was Saffar for this planet .

 The winning name was submitted by the Vega Astronomy Club of Morocco and honours the 11th Century astronomer Ibn al @-@ Saffar of Muslim Spain .

 = = Discovery = =

 Like the majority of known extrasolar planets , Upsilon Andromedae b was detected by the variations in its star 's radial velocity caused by the planet 's gravity .

 The variations were detected by making sensitive measurements of the Doppler shift of Upsilon Andromedae 's spectrum .

 Like 51 Pegasi b , the first extrasolar planet discovered around a normal star , Upsilon Andromedae b orbits very close to its star , closer than Mercury does to our Sun .

 A limitation of the radial velocity method used to detect Upsilon Andromedae b is that only a lower limit on the mass can be found .

 = = Physical characteristics = =

 Given the planet 's high mass , it is likely that Upsilon Andromedae b is a gas giant with no solid surface .

 The Spitzer Space Telescope measured the planet temperature , and found that the difference between the two sides of Upsilon Andromedae b of about 1 @ , @ 400 degrees Celsius , ranging from minus 20 to 230 degrees to about 1 @ , @ 400 to 1 @ , @ 650 degrees Celsius .

 The temperature difference has led to speculation that Upsilon Andromedae b is tidal locked with the same side always facing Upsilon Andromedae A.

 Sudarsky had , on the assumption that the planet is similar to Jupiter in composition and that its environment is close to chemical equilibrium , predicted Upsilon Andromedae b to have reflective clouds of silicates and iron in its upper atmosphere .

 The cloud deck instead absorbs the sun 's radiation ; between that and the hot , high pressure gas surrounding the mantle , exists a stratosphere of cooler gas .

 The planet ( with 51 Pegasi b ) was deemed a candidate for direct imaging by Planetpol .

 It has a geometric albedo of 0 @.@ 35 in visible light .

 = = Effect on its sun = =

 Upsilon Andromedae b appears to be responsible for increased chromospheric activity on its parent star .

 Observations suggest that there is a " hot spot " on the star around 169 ° away from the sub @-@ planetary point .

 This may be the result of interactions between the magnetic fields of the planet and the star .

 = Daniel Radcliffe =

 Daniel Jacob Radcliffe ( born 23 July 1989 ) is an English actor who rose to prominence as the title character in the Harry Potter film series .

 He starred in the 2012 horror film The Woman in Black , and played beat poet Allen Ginsberg in the 2013 independent film Kill Your Darlings .

 He has contributed to many charities , including Demelza Hospice Care for Children , and The Trevor Project for suicide prevention among LGBTQ youth , which gave him its Hero Award in 2011 .

 = = Early life = =

 Radcliffe was born in West London , England .

 His mother is Jewish , and was born in South Africa and raised in Westcliff @-@ on @-@ Sea , Essex .

 Her family had originally come from Poland and Russia .

 Radcliffe 's parents had both acted as children .

 In a 2012 interview , Radcliffe stated : " There was never [ religious ] faith in the house .

 I think of myself as being Jewish and Irish , despite the fact that I 'm English . "

 He has stated : "

 He was educated at two independent schools for boys : Sussex House School , a day school in Chelsea 's Cadogan Square , and the City of London School , a day school on the North Bank of the River Thames in London 's financial district ( known as the City of London ) .

 As his acting career began to consume his schedule , Radcliffe continued his education through on @-@ set tutors .

 He admitted he was not very good at school , considering it useless and finding the work " really difficult .

 "

 He achieved A grades in the three AS @-@ level exams that he took in 2006 , but decided to take a break from education and did not go to college or university .

 = = Career = =

 = = = Harry Potter = = =

 In 2000 , producer David Heyman asked Radcliffe to audition for the role of Harry Potter for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone , the best @-@ selling book by British author J. K. Rowling .

 Eight months later , and after several auditions , Radcliffe was selected to play the part .

 The release of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( released as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer 's Stone in the United States ) took place in 2001 .

 The film was highly popular and was met with positive reviews , and critics took notice of Radcliffe : " Radcliffe is the embodiment of every reader 's imagination .

 A year later Radcliffe starred in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets , the second installment of the series .

 Reviewers were positive about the lead actors ' performances but had polarised opinions on the movie as a whole .

 Radcliffe 's performance was panned by New York Times journalist A. O. Scott , who wrote that Watson had to carry him with her performance .

 Next was Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire in 2005 .

 The future of the franchise was put into question when Radcliffe and his co @-@ leads Emma Watson and Rupert Grint hesitated signing on to continue their roles for the final two episodes ; however , by March 2007 Radcliffe had signed for the final films , which put an end to weeks of press " speculation that he would be denied the role due to his involvement in Equus " , in which he had performed nude on stage .

 Radcliffe reprised his role for the fourth time in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix ( 2007 ) .

 Radcliffe stated that director David Yates and actress Imelda Staunton made Order of the Phoenix the " most fun " film in the series to work on .

 His performance earned several award nominations , and he received the 2008 National Movie Award for " Best Male Performance . "

 As his fame and the series continued , Radcliffe , Grint , and Watson left imprints of their hands , feet , and wands in front of Grauman 's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood .

 In July 2009 Harry Potter and the Half @-@ Blood Prince was released , the series ' sixth instalment .

 Radcliffe received nominations for " Best Male Performance " and " Global Superstar " at the 2010 MTV Movie Awards .

 For financial and scripting reasons the last book was divided into two films , shot back to back , which drew criticism from the series ' fanbase .

 Radcliffe defended the split , stating that it would have been impossible to properly adapt the final novel into a single film .

 Filming lasted for a year , concluding in June 2010 and on the last day of shooting , like most of the cast and crew , Radcliffe openly wept .

 The final film , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2 , was released in July 2011 .

 Radcliffe admitted that some people would never be able to separate him from the character , but also said he is " proud to be associated with this film series forever .

 " Despite positive feelings about the movies , he has no interest in doing more Harry Potter films .

 After Rowling hinted about writing an eighth book , Radcliffe was asked if he would do another film to which he replied : " [ It is ] very doubtful .

 I think 10 years is a long time to spend with one character .

 = = = 2001 – 09 = = =

 Radcliffe made his film debut in The Tailor of Panama , an American 2001 film based on John le Carré 's 1996 spy novel , and a moderate commercial success .

 In 2002 he made his stage debut as a celebrity guest in a West End theatre production of The Play What I Wrote , directed by Kenneth Branagh – who also appeared with him in the second Harry Potter film .

 In 2007 he appeared in the film December Boys , an Australian family drama about four orphans that was shot in 2005 and released to theatres in mid @-@ September 2007 .

 Also in 2007 , Radcliffe co @-@ starred with Carey Mulligan in My Boy Jack , a television drama film shown on ITV on Remembrance Day .

 The film received mostly positive reviews , with several critics praising Radcliffe 's performance as an 18 @-@ year @-@ old who goes missing in action during a battle .

 Radcliffe took on the lead role as Alan Strang , a stable boy who has an obsession with horses .

 Equus opened on 27 February 2007 and ran until 9 June 2007 .

 Radcliffe 's performance received positive reviews as critics were impressed by the nuance and depth of his against @-@ type role .

 Charles Spencer of The Daily Telegraph wrote that he " displays a dramatic power and an electrifying stage presence that marks a tremendous leap forward .

 "

 He added : " I never thought I would find the diminutive ( but perfectly formed )

 Radcliffe stated he was nervous about repeating the role on Broadway because he considered American audiences more discerning than those in London .

 Radcliffe 's performance was nominated for a Drama Desk Award .

 = = = 2010 – present = = =

 After voicing a character in an episode of the animated television series The Simpsons in late 2010 , Radcliffe debuted as J. Pierrepont Finch in the 2011 Broadway revival How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying , a role previously held by Broadway veterans Robert Morse and Matthew Broderick .

 Other cast members included John Larroquette , Rose Hemingway and Mary Faber .

 Both the actor and production received favourable reviews , with USA Today commenting :

 " Radcliffe ultimately succeeds not by overshadowing his fellow cast members , but by working in conscientious harmony with them – and having a blast in the process .

 " Radcliffe 's performance in the show earned him Drama Desk Award , Drama League Award and Outer Critics Circle Award nominations .

 The production itself later received nine Tony Award nominations .

 Radcliffe left the show on 1 January 2012 .

 Radcliffe portrays a man sent to deal with the legal matters of a mysterious woman who has just died , and soon after he begins to experience strange events and hauntings from the ghost of a woman dressed in black .

 In 2013 , he portrayed American poet Allen Ginsberg in the thriller drama Kill Your Darlings , directed by John Krokidas .

 Both of the films premiered at the 38th Toronto International Film Festival .

 In 2015 , Radcliffe starred as Igor in a science fiction horror film Victor Frankenstein directed by Paul McGuigan and written by Max Landis , which was based on contemporary adaptations of Mary Shelley 's 1818 novel Frankenstein .

 In 2016 , Radcliffe portrayed Manny , a talkative corpse , in the indie film Swiss Army Man .

 He is set to star as American reporter Jake Adelstein in Tokyo Vice .

 = = Personal life = =

 In 2008 , Radcliffe revealed that he has a mild form of the neurological disorder developmental coordination disorder .

 In August 2010 , he stopped drinking alcohol after finding himself becoming too reliant on it .

 In November 2007

 Radcliffe published several poems under the pen name Jacob Gershon – a combination of his middle name and the Jewish version of his mother 's maiden name Gresham – in Rubbish , an underground fashion magazine .

 He has a close friendship with his Harry Potter co @-@ stars Tom Felton and Emma Watson , and is tight @-@ knit with his family , whom he credits for keeping him grounded .

 Radcliffe was considered to be the richest teenager in England later that year .

 In February 2010 he was named the sixth highest paid Hollywood male star and placed at number five on Forbes 's December list of Hollywood 's highest @-@ grossing actors with a film revenue of US $ 780 million , mainly due to Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows being released that year .

 Radcliffe maintains a home in the West Village of Lower Manhattan in New York City .

 There were rumours and stories of a possible engagement in mid @-@ 2014 , but Darke 's father Ian Darke denied there were any such plans in December 2014 .

 Radcliffe is an atheist .

 I don 't preach my atheism , but I have a huge amount of respect for people like Richard Dawkins who do .

 Anything he does on television , I will watch " .

 Radcliffe is a supporter of the Labour Party .

 He is a supporter of a British republic .

 At the age of sixteen , Radcliffe became the youngest non @-@ royal ever to have an individual portrait in Britain 's National Portrait Gallery ( NPG ) .

 On 13 April 2006 his portrait , drawn by Stuart Pearson Wright , was unveiled as part of a new exhibition opening at the Royal National Theatre ; it was then moved to the NPG where it resides .

 Speaking out against homophobia , Radcliffe began filming public service announcements in 2009 for The Trevor Project , promoting awareness of gay teen suicide prevention .

 In the same interview , he spoke of the importance of public figures advocating for equal rights .

 Radcliffe has supported various charities .

 Radcliffe has urged his fans to make donations , in lieu of Christmas presents to him , to the charity 's Candle for Care program .

 and presenting at the 2011 Gypsy of the Year competition .

 He has also donated money to Get Connected UK , a London @-@ based free confidential national helpline for troubled youth .

 Radcliffe is a fan of the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League .

 = = Filmography = =

 = = Awards and nominations = =

 = ... Thirteen Years Later =

 It premiered on the Fox network on October 30 , 1998 .

 In this episode , Federal Bureau of Investigation agents Frank Black ( Lance Henriksen ) and Emma Hollis ( Klea Scott ) investigate a series of murders on the set of a horror film — and realize that the production is based on a case Black solved several years earlier .

 It has evoked mixed responses from critics , although the guest appearances by the members of Kiss have been more universally criticized .

 = = Plot = =

 Federal Bureau of Investigation agents Frank Black ( Lance Henriksen ) and Emma Hollis ( Klea Scott ) travel to Travelers Rest , South Carolina to investigate the deaths of film director Lew Carroll ( Paul Stanley ) and Marta Danbury , the leading actress in his newest film .

 As the local sheriff guides Black and Hollis through the murder scene , Black realizes that the film is based on a real murder case he investigated thirteen years previously ; he is shocked to learn that the true story is being sensationalized for the screen .

 Also questioned is Hugo Winston , the man whose partner was murdered in the earlier case and who is campaigning against what he sees as a disrespectful production .

 The production continues , and after the filming of a pool scene the crew gather in catering ;

 Beeman discovers a severed finger in his sandwich , recognizing from its ring that it belonged to Niederman .

 The next day , a film extra ( Gene Simmons ) confesses to the killings ;

 Black pokes holes in his story and discovers he is not a credible perpetrator .

 Black doubts that Winston is the killer , and while Hollis stays in the hotel , he visits the production 's climactic shoot , set during a performance by the band Kiss .

 Racing back to her hotel , Black discover Hollis fending off a chainsaw @-@ wielding Bianco .

 Black is able to subdue Bianco after Hollis disables the chainsaw ; the actor then explains that he lacked Black 's insight and had to commit the crimes in order to see through the eyes of a killer .

 = = Production = =

 The episode was directed by Thomas J. Wright , who helmed a total of twenty @-@ six episodes across all three seasons .

 The episode features guest appearances by the members of the band Kiss — Peter Criss , Ace Frehley , Gene Simmons and Paul Stanley — who each portray both themselves and a small cameo role .

 However , the band members insisted during filming that their roles be given an equal amount of dialogue , which led to Perry being asked to amend scenes on short notice and fax updated scripts to the shooting locations ; ultimately much of this additional material was filmed but not used in the episode .

 Perry praised Wright for his ability to direct the episode within the usual time constraints , as he felt the number of shots involved was more akin to a feature film than a television episode .

 = = Broadcast and reception = =

 The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 5 @.@ 4 during its original broadcast , meaning that 5 @.@ 4 percent of households in the United States viewed the episode .

 This represented approximately 5 @.@ 37 million households .

 " ... Thirteen Years Later " received mixed reviews from critics .

 The A.V. Club 's Todd VanDerWerff rated the episode a " B " . VanDerWerff felt that the episode 's comedic slant was necessary within the wider series , as he considered Millennium 's dark tone to be prone to unintentional comedy and that a comic episode provided an outlet for this .

 Robert Shearman and Lars Pearson , in their book Wanting to Believe : A Critical Guide to The X @-@ Files , Millennium & The Lone Gunmen , rated " ... Thirteen Years Later " one star out of five .

 He considered the episode 's characters to too shallow and its commentary to be too heavy @-@ handed to fully execute anything meaningful ; criticism was also levelled at the guest roles by the members of Kiss .

 = New Jersey Route 29 =

 Route 29 is a state highway in the U.S. state of New Jersey .

 It runs 34 @.@ 76 mi ( 55 @.@ 94 km ) from an interchange with Interstate 295 ( I @-@ 295 ) in Hamilton Township in Mercer County , where it continues as I @-@ 195 , to Route 12 ( Bridge Street / Race Street ) in Frenchtown , Hunterdon County .

 This section includes a truck @-@ restricted tunnel that was built along the river near historic houses and Riverview Cemetery .

 North of I @-@ 95 , Route 29 turns into a scenic and mostly two @-@ lane highway .

 North of the South Trenton Tunnel , it is designated the Delaware River Scenic Byway , a New Jersey Scenic Byway and National Scenic Byway , that follows the Delaware River in mostly rural sections of Mercer County and Hunterdon County .

 The obsolete Delaware & Raritan Canal usually stands between the river and the highway .

 Most sections of this portion of Route 29 are completely shaded due to the tree canopy .

 Route 29 also has a spur , Route 129 , which connects Route 29 to U.S. Route 1 ( US 1 ) in Trenton .

 The route between Lambertville and Frenchtown was originally Route 29A .

 In 1953 , Route 29 was shifted to follow the alignment of Route 29A to avoid the concurrencies with the U.S. Routes .

 Route 29 between South Warren Street in Trenton and I @-@ 95 in Ewing Township was upgraded to a four @-@ lane highway , with a portion of freeway , in the 1950s and 1960s .

 In 1995 , the southern freeway part of Route 29 between I @-@ 195 / I @-@ 295 and Route 129 in Hamilton Township was completed .

 This freeway section was linked to the rest of Route 29 by a tunnel completed in 2002 .

 A realignment of Route 29 in Lambertville by the 2000s made the route concurrent with the entire length of 0 @.@ 26 @-@ mile @-@ long ( 0 @.@ 42 km ) Route 165 .

 = = Route description = =

 = = = Mercer County = = =

 Route 29 begins at a modified cloverleaf interchange with Interstate 195 and Interstate 295 in Hamilton Township , and it serves as the western continuation of Interstate 195 , heading to the northwest as a six @-@ lane freeway .

 The route interchanges with Route 129 , a spur of Route 29 which connects to U.S. Route 1 , at a partial interchange with a northbound exit and southbound entrance .

 Route 29 narrows to four lanes past this interchange and crosses into Trenton .

 The route comes to a southbound exit and entrance for Lamberton Road .

 At this point , Route 29 becomes the Delaware River Scenic Byway , a state scenic byway that was also designated a National Scenic Byway in 2009 .

 Route 29 runs along the bank of the Delaware River and enters a truck @-@ restricted tunnel that passes by historic houses and Riverview Cemetery .

 Within this tunnel , Route 29 features a southbound exit and northbound entrance for Lalor Street .

 The route emerges from the tunnel as the John Fitch Parkway , passes by Arm & Hammer Park , and comes to a traffic light at Thunder Road / Cass Street where it widens back to six lanes .

 Route 29 meets South Warren Street at another traffic light .

 Access to U.S. Route 1 southbound is provided by ramps from Route 29 while access to Route 29 from northbound U.S. Route 1 is provided by South Warren Street .

 Route 29 passes under the Lower Trenton Bridge and the median narrows again .

 It interchanges with Market Street , which provides access to Route 33 , and then features an interchange which provides access to the New Jersey State House with a northbound exit and southbound entrance .

 Route 29 crosses the Assunpink Creek and features an interchange which provides access to South Warren Street with exits in both directions but only a northbound entrance .

 Route 29 continues to a cloverleaf interchange with Calhoun Street ( County Route 653 ) , which provides access to the Calhoun Street Bridge over the Delaware River .

 Riverside Avenue exits as a frontage road paralleling the northbound lanes of Route 29 before the road features a northbound exit for Hermitage Avenue .

 Route 29 comes to a partial interchange with Parkside Avenue , with a northbound exit and southbound entrance , and then features a northbound exit for South Eastfield Avenue .

 The freeway portion of Route 29 ends at the intersection with Lee Avenue and it continues northwest along the Delaware River as a four @-@ lane divided highway .

 The route meets the southern terminus of County Route 579 ( Sullivan Way ) .

 The median widens again and then narrows as the route meets the southern terminus of Route 175 , a former alignment of Route 29 that currently serves as a frontage road .

 Route 29 crosses into Ewing Township and becomes the Daniel Bray Highway .

 Route 29 intersects Route 175 again and then comes to a complex interchange with Interstate 95 , with the ramps within the median of Route 29 , just to the east of the Scudder Falls Bridge .

 Upon crossing the Delaware and Raritan Canal , Route 29 narrows down to a two @-@ lane undivided road called River Road .

 It continues along the Delaware River , next to the Delaware and Raritan Canal , which runs between Route 29 and the river .

 The route intersects the northern terminus of Route 175 .

 Farther north , Route 29 enters Hopewell Township and continues into a more rural setting shaded with trees .

 Route 29 continues north along the Delaware River through Titusville , passing by Washington Crossing State Park .

 = = = Hunterdon County = = =

 Route 29 crosses into West Amwell Township in Hunterdon County .

 It enters Lambertville , where Route 29 becomes a four @-@ lane divided highway .

 At the intersection of South Main Street , Route 29 becomes concurrent with Route 165 .

 Route 29 follows Main Street north through Lambertville , crossing into Delaware Township .

 Route 29 continues along the Delaware River and enters Stockton .

 The route intersects Bridge Street , which crosses the Delaware River on the Centre Bridge @-@ Stockton Bridge and continues into Pennsylvania as Pennsylvania Route 263 .

 Shortly after that intersection , Route 29 intersects the southern terminus of County Route 523 ( Stockton @-@ Flemington Road ) .

 Route 29 crosses back into Delaware Township , where it meets the southern terminus of County Route 519 ( Kingwood @-@ Stockton Road ) .

 Route 29 makes a sharp left turn and heads west along the river as a rural road , crossing into Kingwood Township , where the name of the road changes from Main Street to Daniel Bray Highway .

 Here , it intersects with County Route 651 ( Byram @-@ Kingwood Road ) .

 The route bends to the north and continues along the Delaware River for several miles , crossing into Frenchtown , where the route becomes Trenton Road .

 Upon entering Frenchtown , an end shield for northbound Route 29 is posted to mark the end of state maintenance , which officially ends at the Washington Street intersection , where maintenance is transferred to the county .

 The southern terminus of County Route 513 is located a block north of the northern terminus of Route 29 along Route 12 .

 = = History = =

 The current route was originally legislated in 1911 as part of the Delaware River Drive , a named state highway that was proposed to run from along the Delaware River from Trenton to the New York border in Montague Township .

 Route 29 was originally defined in 1927 to run from Trenton to Newark .

 The original route ran from downtown Trenton along State Street and Sanhican Drive .

 From there , it followed its current alignment to Lambertville , where it followed present @-@ day Route 179 to Ringoes to present @-@ day County Route 514 , which it followed to Woods Tavern .

 The route turned north on U.S. Route 206 ( also designated Route 31 ) and followed that route to Somerville , where it followed U.S. Route 22 to Newark .

 The current alignment of Route 29 from Lambertville to Route 12 in Frenchtown was designated Route 29A in 1927 .

 In 1938 , Route 29B was planned as an extension of Route 29A from Frenchtown to Route 28 ( now Route 122 ) in Alpha .

 While this road was never built , much of the alignment north of Milford is served by County Route 519 .

 In 1948 , a spur route , Route S29 , was created , running along U.S. Route 202 ( Bridge Street ) in Lambertville to the New Hope @-@ Lambertville Bridge .

 The section of former Route 29 between Route 29A and Route S29 became Route 165 .

 Plans for a limited @-@ access route along the Route 29 corridor go back to 1932 , when a parkway was proposed along the Delaware River between Trenton and Lambertville ; this proposal never materialized .

 Plans for a freeway were resurrected in the early 1950s to construct a road , the John Fitch Parkway , that was to run from Hamilton Township to Interstate 95 in Ewing Township .

 This road was built between 1954 and 1957 from South Warren Street in Trenton to present @-@ day Interstate 95 in Ewing Township .

 Construction of this portion John Fitch Parkway took up much of Trenton ’ s available waterfront along the Delaware River .

 The former alignment of Route 29 in the northern part of Trenton and in Ewing Township became Route 175 .

 Between 1990 and 1995 , the Route 29 freeway was built between the Interstate 195 / Interstate 295 interchange and Route 129 in Hamilton Township .

 A two @-@ lane street , Lamberton Road , connected the two freeway sections .

 Plans were then made to fill the gap between the two freeway sections in Trenton .

 Construction began in 1997 on the Route 29 freeway between Route 129 and the Morrisville @-@ Trenton Railroad Bridge .

 The road was to include two traffic lights at Cass Street and South Warren Street and a tunnel which was to be built as a covered roadway on the bank of the Delaware River .

 The tunnel was originally scheduled to be complete by 2001 but was delayed after the Army Corps of Engineers discovered many environmental violations that occurred with construction of the tunnel .

 The roof was put in place in October 2001 and the tunnel officially opened to traffic on March 2 , 2002 .

 A restriction to trucks over 13 tons was put in place and made permanent in November 2002 .

 By the 2000s , the state gave the part of Route 29 ( South Main Street ) between Route 165 and Route 179 in Lambertville to the city , and Route 29 was rerouted to use all of Route 165 and one block of Route 179 .

 Route 165 , which is only signed on overhead street signs , still exists , though it is fully concurrent with Route 29 .

 = = Major intersections = =

 = First Mongol invasion of Burma =

 The first Mongol invasions of Burma ( Myanmar ) ( Burmese : မွန ် ဂို – မြန ် မာ စစ ် ( ၁၂၇၇ – ၁၂၈၇ ) ) were a series of military conflicts between Kublai Khan 's Yuan dynasty , division of the Mongol Empire , and the Pagan Empire that took place between 1277 and 1287 .

 The invasions toppled the 250 @-@ year @-@ old Pagan Empire , and the Mongol army seized Pagan territories in present @-@ day Dehong , Yunnan and northern Burma to Tagaung .

 The invasions ushered in 250 years of political fragmentation in Burma and the rise of Tai @-@

 Shan states throughout mainland Southeast Asia .

 It too was rejected .

 In 1275 , the emperor ordered the Yunnan government to secure the borderlands in order to block an escape path for the Song , and permitted a limited border war if Pagan contested .

 After a brief lull , Kublai Khan in 1281 turned his attention to Southeast Asia , demanding tribute from Pagan , the Khmer Empire , Đại Việt and Champa .

 When the Burmese king again refused , the emperor ordered an invasion of northern Burma .

 The Mongols organized northern Burma as the province of Zhengmian .

 Ceasefire negotiations began in 1285 , and ended with Narathihapate finally agreeing to submit in June 1286 .

 The Burmese embassy , received by the emperor in Beijing in January 1287 , agreed to a treaty that acknowledged the suzerainty of the Yuan dynasty or the Mongol Empire over the Pagan Empire and annual payments in taxes to the Yunnan government in exchange for the evacuation of Mongol troops from northern Burma .

 The Mongol command at Yunnan now deemed the imperial order to withdraw void , and ordered an invasion of central Burma .

 The Pagan Empire disintegrated and anarchy ensued .

 The Mongols , who probably preferred the situation , did nothing to restore order in the next ten years .

 Marco Polo reported the first invasions ( 1277 – 87 ) in his travelogue , Il Milione .

 King Narathihapate is unkindly remembered in Burmese history as Taruk @-@

 Pye Min , ( " the King who Fled from the Taruk " ) .

 = = Background = =

 = = = Pagan and Dali = = =

 Dali @-@ based kingdoms were a power in their own right , at times allying themselves with the Tibetan Empire to their west and at other times with China 's Tang and Song dynasties .

 The Mongol Empire first arrived at the doorstep of the Pagan Empire in 1252 by invading the Dali Kingdom in its attempt to outflank Song China .

 The Mongol armies captured the capital , Dali , on 7 January 1253 , and went on to pacify much of the kingdom by 1257 .

 For the next dozen years , they consolidated their hold over the newly conquered land , which not only provided them with a base from which to attack the Song from the rear but also was strategically located on the trade routes from China to Burma and India .

 The Mongols set up military garrisons , manned mostly by Turkic @-@ speaking Muslims from Central Asia , in 37 circuits of the former Dali Kingdom .

 The continuous growth of tax @-@ free religious wealth had greatly reduced the tax base of the kingdom .

 The crown had lost resources needed to retain the loyalty of courtiers and military servicemen , inviting a vicious circle of internal disorders and external challenges .

 Although it was able to put down the first batch of serious rebellions in 1258 – 60 in South Arakan and Martaban ( Mottama ) , the decline continued .

 On the eve of the Mongol invasions , between one and two @-@ thirds of Upper Burma 's cultivable land had been donated to religion .

 The crown 's ability to mobilize defenses was in serious jeopardy .

 = = Prelude to war = =

 The period of calm for Pagan ended in the early 1270s .

 By then , the Song were on the ropes , and Emperor Kublai Khan , who officially founded the Yuan dynasty on 18 December 1271 , sought to cut off the retreat of Song refugees in all directions .

 The tribute he demanded was nominal .

 At the border , the ruler of the Wa and Palaung regions submitted to the Mongols .

 The king was furious at the demand and kept the Mongol envoys waiting for weeks .

 The court finally devised a compromise : the envoys were sent back without ever seeing the king .

 Accompanying them was a Burmese envoy who carried a letter expressing friendly sentiments and the Burmese king 's wish to one day worship a Buddha tooth at Beijing .

 The king then promptly ordered an expedition , which retook the rebellious borderland regions in April 1272 .

 The rebel leader A @-@ Pi ( အပိ ) was brought back to Pagan .

 Dali relayed the news to Beijing but did not carry out any military action .

 On 3 March 1273 , he sent a 4 @-@ member delegation led by an imperial ambassador , the First Secretary to the Board Rites , to Pagan .

 The delegation carried a letter from the emperor .

 The letter says :

 " If you have finally decided to fulfill your duties towards the All @-@ Highest , send one of your brothers or senior ministers , to show men that all the world is linked with Us , and enter into a perpetual alliance .

 Ponder well , O king , Our words . "

 This time , the Burmese king received the imperial envoys but still refused to submit .

 ( The Burmese chronicles say that the king was so insulted that he had the envoys executed .

 But both Burmese inscriptional evidence and Yuan records indicate that the envoys were not executed . )

 But the emperor rejected an outright invasion .

 Just coming off a disastrous Japanese campaign , the emperor was unwilling to commit the central government troops to what he considered a low priority affair .

 He was now focused on delivering the final blow against the Song ; the emperor ordered the Yunnan provincial army to secure the borderlands in order to block the escape path of the Song refugees .

 He also sanctioned a limited border war if Pagan contested the takeover .

 By 1277 , at least one Burmese vassal state named " Gold Teeth " ( modern Yingjiang ) had submitted to the Mongols .

 = = Border war ( 1277 – 78 ) = =

 It was reported mainly in the Yuan dynasty chronicle and the travelogue of Marco Polo .

 Although the Burmese chronicles have no record of the border war , a 1278 Burmese inscription mentions the army 's defeat at Ngasaunggyan .

 The Mongol accounts of the border war contain certain errors of location and numbers although the overall narrative is probably accurate .

 The Yuan Chronicle reports that only 700 men defeated a Burmese army of 40 @ , @ 000 to 50 @ , @ 000 with 10 @ , @ 000 horses and 800 elephants .

 It also reports only one Mongol was killed , in trying to catch an elephant .

 According to Marco Polo , the Mongol army consisted of 12 @ , @ 000 mounted archers , and the Burmese army numbered 60 @ ,@ 000 men with 2000 elephants , " on each of which was set a tower of timber , well @-@ framed and strong , and carrying from 12 to 16 well @-@ armed fighting men . "

 "

 The Mongol archers ' arrows threw the animals into such pain that they fled .

 The Mongol army pressed on after the monsoon season .

 They occupied the fort and destroyed a large number of abandoned stockades .

 = = Interlude ( 1278 – 83 ) = =

 Despite the Mongol military success , the control of the borderlands remained contested .

 The Great Khan 's attention turned to Southeast Asia once more in 1281 .

 He had had mixed success : his vaunted forces had finished off the last of the Song in 1279 but had again failed to take Japan in 1281 .

 At Pagan , Narathihapate deliberated with his court for an appropriate response but ultimately refused to submit .

 ( He also ordered an invasion of Champa , whose king too had refused to submit . )

 In the same year , a usurper named Wareru seized the southern port city of Martaban ( Mottama ) by killing its Pagan @-@ appointed governor .

 Throughout 1282 , the Mongol command made preparations for the upcoming invasions of Champa and northern Burma .

 At least one army consisted of 14 @ , @ 000 men of the erstwhile Persian Khwarezmid Empire under the command of Yalu Beg was sent to Yunnan to reinforce the Burma invasion force , which again was made up of Turks and other central Asians .

 = = Invasion ( 1283 – 85 ) = =

 The invasion began on 22 September 1283 .

 The Mongol armies marched to the border in two columns .

 One column advanced along the Taping River using over 200 boats ; the other proceeded by land and joined the first column at the Burmese fort at Ngasaunggyan .

 The Burmese chronicles report an overwhelming number of Mongol forces laying siege to the fort although their numbers are greatly exaggerated .

 ( The chronicles say that the Burmese army numbered 400 @ ,@ 000 men while the Mongol army numbered 20 million men and 6 million horses . )

 The Burmese withstood the siege for over two months but the fort fell on 3 December 1283 .

 The defeat at Ngasaunggyan broke the back of Burmese defenses .

 The Burmese army lost several thousand men as well as senior commanders .

 Kaungsin , the next fort inline , fell just six days later on 9 December 1283 .

 The Mongol sources say that the Burmese lost 10 @ , @ 000 men at Kaungsin .

 The Mongol armies pushed farther south into the Irrawaddy valley .

 They took the ancient Burmese capital of Tagaung , about 380 km north of Pagan on 5 February 1284 .

 There , the invaders paused their advance .

 They found the heat of the searing Irrawaddy valley excessive , and evacuated Tagaung , allowing the Burmese to return to Tagaung on 10 May 1284 .

 But the Mongol army renewed their offensive in the following dry season .

 After the defeat , the king panicked , and fled to Lower Burma .

 The evacuation proved premature .

 The Mongol forces did not advance on Pagan as it was not part of their invasion plan .

 The country fell into chaos .

 Without the full support of his sons , the presence of the king and his small army impressed no one .

 The governor of Pegu revolted that same year .

 The king managed to send two small expeditions to Pegu but they both failed .

 = = Peace negotiations ( 1285 – 87 ) = =

 = = = Ceasefire = = =

 Given his precarious position , Narathihapate decided to buy time , and sue for peace with the Mongols .

 In November / December 1285 , the king ordered his generals Ananda Pyissi and Maha Bo to enter into ceasefire negotiations .

 The Mongol commanders at Hanlin , who had organized northern Burma as a protectorate named Zhengmian ( Chinese : 征緬 ; Wade – Giles : Cheng @-@ Mien ) , agreed to a ceasefire but insisted on a full submission .

 They repeated their 1281 demand that the Burmese king send a formal delegation to the emperor .

 After a long deliberation , the king agreed to submit but wanted the Mongol troops to withdraw .

 In June 1286 , he sent an embassy led by Shin Ditha Pamauk , a learned monk , to the emperor 's court .

 In January 1287 , the embassy arrived at Beijing , and was received by the Yuan emperor .

 The Burmese delegation formally acknowledged Mongol suzerainty of their kingdom , and agreed to pay annual tribute tied to the agricultural output of the country .

 In exchange , the emperor agreed to withdraw his troops .

 He did not want to invest more troops pacify the rest of the kingdom .

 He preferred a vassal ruler .

 The Burmese embassy arrived back at Hlegya in May 1287 , and reported the terms to the king .

 = = = Breakdown = = =

 But the agreement broke down a month later .

 In late June , the defeated king and his small retinue left their temporary capital for Pagan .

 Anarchy ensued .

 Each region in the country which had not revolted broke away .

 No successor to Narathihapate , who could honor and enforce the terms of the treaty of Beijing , emerged .

 = = Mongol intervention ( 1287 ) = =

 Given the chaos , the governor of Yunnan ignored the imperial orders of evacuation .

 But not all colonial period scholars agreed with the assessment as none of the contemporary Mongol / Chinese records specifically mentioned the conquest of Pagan or the temporary completeness of the conquest .

 Recent research shows that the Mongol forces most probably never reached Pagan .

 They were held at bay by the Burmese defenses led by commanders Athinkhaya , Yazathingyan and Thihathu , and probably never got closer than 160 km north of Pagan .

 ( An inscription dated 16 February 1293 by the three brothers claimed that they defeated the Mongol army . )

 Even if the Mongols did reach Pagan , the damage they inflicted was probably minimal .

 At any rate , the Mongol army suffered heavy casualties , and retreated north to Tagaung .

 They remained there as the treaty was now void .

 = = Aftermath = =

 The disintegration of the Pagan Empire was now complete .

 But the Mongols refused to fill in the power vacuum they had created .

 They would send no more expeditions to restore order .

 The emperor apparently had no interest in committing troops that would be required to pacify the fragmented country .

 "

 The real power in central Burma now rested with the three commander brothers .

 The uneasy arrangement would persist until 1297 .

 The Mongols continued to occupy northern Burma to Tagaung as the province of Zhengmian ( Cheng @-@ Mien ) but ended the fictional central Burma province of Mianzhong on 18 August 1290 .

 Meanwhile , the power struggle in central Burma continued with the three brothers blatantly consolidating support .

 To check their rising power , Kyawswa submitted to the Mongols in January 1297 , and was recognized by the Yuan emperor Temür Khan as King of Pagan on 20 March 1297 .

 The emperor also gave Chinese titles to the brothers as subordinates of Kyawswa .

 The brothers resented the new arrangement as it directly reduced their power .

 On 17 December 1297 , the three brothers overthrew Kyawswa , and founded the Myinsaing Kingdom .

 The dethronement forced the Mongol government to intervene again , leading to the second Mongol invasion of Burma ( 1300 – 01 ) .

 The invasion failed .

 = = Legacy = =

 The war was one of several near simultaneous wars waged by the Mongol Empire and the Yuan dynasty in the late 13th century .

 Though it was never more than a minor frontier war to the Mongols , the war set off a series of enduring developments in Burma .

 The invasions ushered in a period of political fragmentation , and the rise of Tai @-@

 Shan states throughout mainland Southeast Asia .

 = = = Age of political fragmentation = = =

 The immediate result of the war was the collapse of the Pagan Empire .

 The vast region surrounding the Irrawaddy valley would continue to be made up of several small Tai @-@

 Shan states well into the 16th century .

 = = = Rise of Tai @-@

 Shan states = = =

 Perhaps the most enduring legacy of the Mongol invasions was the emergence of Tai @-@

 Shan states in mainland Southeast Asia .

 The Tai @-@

 Shan people who came down with the Mongol invasions stayed .

 By the early 14th century , several Tai @-@

 Shan states had come to dominate a vast region from present @-@ day Assam to northern and eastern Myanmar to northern and central Thailand and Laos .

 Their rise was encouraged by the Mongols , who viewed the states as a useful buffer between Yunnan and the rest of Southeast Asia .

 The Mongols , who were still trying to incorporate Yunnan into the central administration , were unwilling or unable to make necessary sustained investments to bring the vast regions south of Yunnan into the fold .

 ( The integration of Yunnan itself into “ China Proper ” was to take several more centuries , and continues to today . )

 Shan states in western and central Southeast Asia to Dai Viet and Champa in eastern Southeast Asia , the Mongols elected to receive nominal tribute .

 The war also marked the arrival of China at the doorstep of Burma .

 Over the years , the term Taruk came to be used to refer to the Han Chinese .

 Today , King Narathihapate is remembered as Taruk @-@

 The raids by various Shan states into Upper Burma would continue until the mid @-@ 16th century .

 = = Mongolia – Myanmar relations = =

 During the official visit by the President Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj to Myanmar in November 2013 , Aung San Suu Kyi , the chairperson of National League for Democracy , said this was the first ever Mongol mission since the Mongols came 730 years earlier .

 = Battle of Edson 's Ridge =

 Kawaguchi 's unit was sent to Guadalcanal in response to the Allied landings with the mission of recapturing the airfield and driving the Allied forces from the island .

 The main Japanese assault occurred around Lunga ridge south of Henderson Field , manned by troops from several U.S. Marine Corps units , primarily troops from the 1st Raider and 1st Parachute Battalions under U.S. Marine Corps Lieutenant Colonel Merritt A. Edson .

 After Edson 's Ridge , the Japanese continued to send troops to Guadalcanal for further attempts to retake Henderson Field , affecting Japanese offensive operations in other areas of the South Pacific .

 = = Background = =

 = = = Guadalcanal campaign = = =

 On 7 August 1942 , Allied forces ( primarily U.S. ) landed on Guadalcanal , Tulagi , and Florida Islands in the Solomon Islands .

 The landings on the islands were meant to deny their use by the Japanese as bases for threatening the supply routes between the U.S. and Australia .

 They were also intended to secure the islands as starting points for a campaign to neutralize the major Japanese base at Rabaul and support the Allied New Guinea campaign .

 The landings initiated the six @-@ month @-@ long Guadalcanal campaign .

 Taking the Japanese by surprise , by nightfall on 8 August the Allied landing forces had secured Tulagi and nearby small islands , as well as an airfield under construction at Lunga Point ( 9 ° 25 ′ 45 ″ S 160 ° 3 ′ 4 ″ E ) on the north shore of the island of Guadalcanal east of the present day capital of Honiara .

 Vandegrift placed his 11 @ , @ 000 troops of the 1st Marine Division on Guadalcanal in a loose perimeter around the Lunga Point area .

 On 12 August , the airfield was named Henderson Field after Major Lofton Henderson , a Marine aviator who had been killed at the Battle of Midway .

 The Allied aircraft and pilots that subsequently operated out of Henderson Field were called the " Cactus Air Force " after the Allied code name for Guadalcanal .

 In response to the Allied landings on Guadalcanal , the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters assigned the Imperial Japanese Army 's 17th Army — a corps @-@ sized command based at Rabaul ( 4 ° 11 ′ 56 ″ S 152 ° 9 ′ 57 ″ E ) and under the command of Lieutenant @-@ General Harukichi Hyakutake — with the task of retaking Guadalcanal from Allied forces .

 The 17th Army — heavily involved with the Japanese campaign in New Guinea — had only a few units available to send to the southern Solomons area .

 The different units began to move toward Guadalcanal immediately ; Ichiki 's regiment — the closest — arrived first .

 Underestimating the strength of Allied forces on Guadalcanal , Ichiki 's First Element conducted a nighttime frontal assault on Marine positions at Alligator Creek on the east side of the Lunga perimeter in the early morning hours of August 21 .

 The survivors returned to Taivu Point , notified 17th Army headquarters of their defeat in the battle and awaited further reinforcements and orders from Rabaul .

 Because of the damage caused by Allied air attack to a separate troop convoy during the Battle of the Eastern Solomons , the Japanese decided not to deliver Kawaguchi 's troops to Guadalcanal by slow transport ship ; instead , the ships carrying Kawaguchi 's soldiers were sent to Rabaul .

 From there , the Japanese planned to deliver Kawaguchi 's men to Guadalcanal by destroyers , staging through a Japanese naval base in the Shortland Islands .

 The Japanese controlled the seas around the Solomon Islands during the nighttime and were not challenged by the Allies .

 = = = Troop movement = = =

 On 28 August , 600 of Kawaguchi 's troops were loaded onto the destroyers Asagiri , Amagiri , Yugiri , and Shirakumo , designated Destroyer Division 20 ( DD20 ) .

 Amagiri took Shirakumo in tow and the three destroyers returned to the Shortlands without completing their mission .

 The attack on DD20 killed 62 of Kawaguchi 's soldiers and 94 crew members .

 Subsequent " Express " runs were more successful .

 Between 29 August and 4 September , various Japanese light cruisers , destroyers , and patrol boats were able to land almost 5 @ , @ 000 troops at Taivu Point , including all of the 35th Infantry Brigade , one battalion of the Aoba Regiment , and the rest of Ichiki 's regiment .

 General Kawaguchi , who landed at Taivu Point on the 31 August Express run , was placed in command of all the Japanese troops on Guadalcanal .

 On 4 – 5 September , aircraft from Henderson Field attacked the barge convoy , killing about 90 of the soldiers in the barges and destroying much of the unit 's heavy equipment .

 Most of the remaining 1 @ , @ 000 troops were able to land near Kamimbo ( 9 ° 15 ′ 32 ″ S 159 ° 40 ′ 18 ″ E ) , west of the Lunga perimeter over the next few days .

 Kawaguchi was confident enough that he could defeat the Allied forces facing him that he declined an offer from the 17th Army for delivery of one more infantry battalion to augment his forces .

 Kawaguchi believed that there were only about 2 @ , @ 000 U.S. Marines on Guadalcanal .

 During this time , Vandegrift continued to direct efforts to strengthen and improve the defenses of the Lunga perimeter .

 Between 21 August and 3 September , he relocated three Marine battalions — including the 1st Raider Battalion , under U.S. Lieutenant Colonel Merritt A. Edson ( Edson 's Raiders ) , and the 1st Parachute Battalion — from Tulagi and Gavutu to Guadalcanal .

 These units added about 1 @ , @ 500 troops to Vandegrift 's original 11 @ , @ 000 men defending Henderson Field .

 The 1st Parachute battalion , which had suffered heavy casualties in the Battle of Tulagi and Gavutu @-@ Tanambogo in August , was placed under Edson 's command .

 = = Battle = =

 = = = Prelude = = =

 Kawaguchi set the date for his attack on the Lunga perimeter for 12 September and began marching his forces west from Taivu towards Lunga Point on 5 September .

 On 7 September , Kawaguchi issued his attack plan to " rout and annihilate the enemy in the vicinity of the Guadalcanal Island airfield .

 " Kawaguchi 's plan called for his forces to split into three , approach the Lunga perimeter inland , and launch a surprise night attack .

 Oka 's force would attack the perimeter from the west while Ichiki 's Second Echelon — renamed the Kuma Battalion — would attack from the east .

 By 7 September , most of Kawaguchi 's troops had started marching from Taivu towards Lunga Point along the coastline .

 About 250 Japanese troops remained behind to guard the brigade 's supply base at Taivu .

 Edson launched a raid against the Japanese troops at Taivu .

 Destroyer transports USS McKean and Manley and two patrol boats took 813 of Edson 's men to Taivu in two trips .

 Edson and his first wave of 501 troops landed at Taivu at 05 : 20 ( local time ) on 8 September .

 Supported by aircraft from Henderson Field and gunfire from the destroyer transports , Edson 's men advanced towards Tasimboko village but were slowed by Japanese resistance .

 At 11 : 00 , the rest of Edson 's men landed .

 With this reinforcement and more support from the Henderson Field aircraft , Edson 's force pushed into the village .

 The Japanese defenders , believing a major landing was underway after observing the concurrent approach of an Allied supply ship convoy heading towards Lunga Point , retreated into the jungle , leaving behind 27 dead .

 Two Marines were killed .

 In Tasimboko , Edson 's troops discovered the supply base for Kawaguchi 's forces , including large stockpiles of food , ammunition and medical supplies , and a shortwave radio .

 The Marines seized documents , equipment and food supplies , destroyed the rest , and returned to the Lunga perimeter at 17 : 30 .

 The ridge offered a natural avenue of approach to the airfield , commanded the surrounding area and was almost undefended .

 Edson and Thomas tried to persuade Vandegrift to move forces to defend the ridge , but Vandegrift refused , believing that the Japanese were more likely to attack along the coast .

 On 11 September , the 840 men of Edson 's unit — including the 1st Raiders and the Paramarines — deployed onto and around the ridge and prepared to defend it .

 Kawaguchi 's Center Body of troops was planning to attack the Lunga perimeter at the ridge , which they called " the centipede " ( mukade gata ) because of its shape .

 On 9 September , Kawaguchi 's troops left the coast at Koli Point .

 Split into four columns , they marched into the jungle towards their predesignated attack points south and southeast of the airfield .

 Lack of good maps , at least one faulty compass , and thick , almost impenetrable jungle caused the Japanese columns to proceed slowly and zigzag , costing a lot of time .

 At the same time , Oka 's troops approached the Lunga perimeter from the west .

 Oka had some intelligence on the Marine defenses , extracted from a U.S. Army pilot captured on 30 August .

 During the day of 12 September , Kawaguchi 's troops struggled through the jungle toward their assembly points for that night 's attacks .

 Oka was also delayed in his advance towards the Marine lines in the west .

 Only the Kuma battalion reported that they were in place on time .

 Japanese bombers attacked the ridge during daytime on 11 – 12 September , causing a few casualties , including two killed .

 = = = First night 's action = = =

 The Americans knew of the approach of the Japanese forces from reports from native scouts and their own patrols , but did not know exactly where or when they would attack .

 The ridge around which Edson deployed his men consisted of three distinct hillocks .

 At the southern tip and surrounded on three sides by thick jungle was Hill 80 ( so named because it rose 80 ft ( 24 m ) above sea level ) .

 Six hundred yards north was Hill 123 ( 123 ft ( 37 m ) high ) , the dominant feature on the ridge .

 The northernmost hillock was unnamed and about 60 ft ( 18 m ) high .

 Two of the five Raider companies , " B " and " C " , held a line between the ridge , a small , swampy lagoon , and the Lunga River .

 Machine @-@ gun teams from " E " Company , the heavy weapons company , were scattered throughout the defenses .

 Edson placed his command post on Hill 123 .

 Japanese artillery began shelling the Marine lines , but did little damage .

 At the same time , scattered groups of Kawaguchi 's troops began skirmishing with Marines around the ridge .

 Kawaguchi 's 1st Battalion — led by Major Yukichi Kokusho — attacked the Raider 's " C " company between the lagoon and the Lunga River , overrunning at least one platoon and forcing the Marine company to fall back to the ridge .

 In my whole life I have never felt so disappointed and helpless .

 " Twelve U.S. Marines were killed ; Japanese casualties are unknown but perhaps somewhat greater .

 Although both Oka in the west and the Kuma unit in the east tried to attack the Marine lines that night , they failed to make contact and halted near the Marine lines at dawn .

 The Japanese suffered several casualties , including two officers from Watanabe 's battalion .

 At 05 : 50 , Kawaguchi decided to regroup his forces for another attack that night .

 = = = Second night 's action on the ridge = = =

 Expecting the Japanese to attack again that night , Edson directed his troops to improve their defenses on and around the ridge .

 After a failed attempt by two companies to retake the ground on the Marine right flank lost to Kokusho the night before , Edson repositioned his forces .

 He pulled his front back about 400 yd ( 370 m ) to a line that stretched 1 @ , @ 800 yd ( 1 @ , @ 600 m ) , starting at the Lunga River and crossing the ridge about 150 yd ( 140 m ) south of Hill 123 .

 Around and behind Hill 123 he placed five companies .

 Any Japanese attackers surmounting Hill 80 would have to advance over 400 yd ( 370 m ) of open terrain to close with the Marine positions at Hill 123 .

 They were low on ammunition , with one or two grenades for each Marine .

 In addition , a battery of four 105 mm howitzers from the 11th Marine Regiment moved to a location from where it could provide direct fire onto the ridge , and a forward artillery observer was placed with Edson 's front line units .

 Late in the afternoon , Edson stepped onto a grenade box and addressed his exhausted troops , saying ,

 You men have done a great job , and I have just one more thing to ask of you .

 Hold out just one more night .

 I know we 've been without sleep a long time .

 Edson 's speech " raised the spirits " of the Raiders and helped them prepare mentally for the night ahead .

 As the sun set on 13 September , Kawaguchi faced Edson 's 830 Marines with 3 @ ,@ 000 troops of his brigade , plus an assortment of light artillery .

 The night was pitch black , with no moon .

 At 21 : 00 , seven Japanese destroyers briefly bombarded the ridge .

 Kawaguchi 's attack began just after nightfall , with Kokusho 's battalion assaulting Raider Company B on the Marine right flank , just to the west of the ridge .

 The force of the assault caused Company B to fall back to Hill 123 .

 Under Marine artillery fire , Kokusho reassembled his men and continued his attack .

 Without pausing to try to " roll @-@ up " the other nearby Marine units , whose flanks were now unprotected , Kokusho 's unit surged forward through the swampy lowlands between the ridge and the Lunga River , heading for the airfield .

 Kokusho 's men came upon a pile of Marine supplies and rations .

 Not having eaten adequately for a couple of days , they paused to " gorge themselves " on the " C " and " K " rations .

 Kokusho ordered his men to continue the attack .

 At about 03 : 00 , he led them against the Marine units around the northern portion of the ridge , just short of the airfield , as well as Hill 123 .

 In the heavy fighting that followed , Kokusho and around 100 of his men were killed , ending that attack .

 Marine observers spotted Tamura 's preparations and called in artillery fire .

 At about 22 : 00 , a barrage from twelve 105 mm ( 4 @.@ 1 in ) guns hit Tamura 's position .

 Tamura 's attack hit Company B of the Marine Parachute battalion and also Raider Company B , pushing the Parachutists off the east side of the ridge into a draw below the ridgeline .

 At the same time , a Japanese company from Watanabe 's battalion infiltrated through a gap between the east side of the ridge and Parachute Company C. Deciding that their positions were now untenable , Parachute Companies B and C climbed onto the ridge and retreated to a position behind Hill 123 .

 In the darkness and confusion of the battle , the retreat quickly became confused and disorganized .

 A few Marines began yelling that the Japanese were attacking with poison gas , scaring other Marines who no longer possessed their gas masks .

 After arriving behind Hill 123 , some of the Marines continued on towards the airfield , repeating the word " withdraw " to anyone within earshot .

 Other Marines began to follow them .

 As the Marines formed into a horseshoe @-@ shaped line around Hill 123 , Tamura 's battalion began a series of frontal assaults on the hill , charging up the saddle from Hill 80 and up from below the east side of the ridge .

 Under the light of parachute flares dropped by at least one Japanese floatplane , the Marines repulsed the first two attacks by Tamura 's men .

 Marines from other units , as well as members of Edson 's command staff , including Major Bailey , took ammunition and grenades under fire to the Marines around Hill 123 , who were running critically low .

 The Japanese hit Edson 's left flank just after the Parachutists took position but were again stopped by Marine rifle , machine @-@ gun , mortar , and grenade fire .

 A captured Japanese soldier later said that his unit was " annihilated " by the Marine artillery fire , which only 10 % of his company survived .

 Throughout the night , as Kawaguchi 's men came close to overrunning the Marine defenses , Edson remained standing about 20 yd ( 18 m ) behind the Marine firing line on Hill 123 , exhorting his troops and directing their defensive efforts .

 Said Marine Captain Tex Smith , who was in position to observe Edson for most of the night , " I can say that if there is such a thing as one man holding a battalion together , Edson did it that night .

 A counterattack by the Marine engineers stopped one Japanese company 's advances and forced it to retreat .

 The other two companies waited at the edge of the jungle for reinforcements to arrive before attacking into the open area around the airfield .

 Most of the rest of Watanabe 's battalion did not participate in the battle because they lost contact with their commander during the night .

 As the sun rose on 14 September , pockets of Japanese soldiers remained scattered along both sides of the ridge .

 About 100 Japanese soldiers still remained in the open on the south slope of Hill 80 , perhaps preparing for one more charge on Hill 123 .

 = = = Kuma and Oka attacks = = =

 Mizuno was killed in the attack .

 After abandoning their burning tanks , several of the disabled tanks ' crewmembers were bayoneted and killed by the Japanese .

 At 23 : 00 on 14 September , the remnants of the Kuma battalion conducted another attack on the same portion of the Marine lines , but were repulsed .

 A final " weak " attack by the Kuma unit on the evening of 15 September was also defeated .

 Oka 's unit of about 650 men attacked the Marines at several locations on the west side of the Lunga perimeter .

 Another Japanese company captured a small ridge somewhat inland but was then pinned down by Marine artillery fire throughout the day and took heavy losses before withdrawing on the evening of 14 September .

 The rest of Oka 's unit failed to find the Marine lines and did not participate in the attack .

 = = Aftermath = =

 At 13 : 05 on 14 September , Kawaguchi led the survivors of his shattered brigade away from the ridge and deeper into the jungle , where they rested and tended to their wounded all the next day .

 Kawaguchi 's units were then ordered to withdraw west to the Matanikau River valley to join with Oka 's unit , a 6 mi ( 9 @.@ 7 km ) march over difficult terrain .

 Kawaguchi 's troops began the march on the morning of 16 September .

 Almost every soldier able to walk had to help carry the wounded .

 As the march progressed , the exhausted and hungry soldiers , who had eaten their last rations on the morning before their withdrawal , began to discard their heavy equipment and then their rifles .

 By the time most of them reached Oka 's positions at Kokumbona five days later , only half still carried their weapons .

 The Kuma battalion 's survivors , attempting to follow Kawaguchi 's Center Body forces , became lost , wandered for three weeks in the jungle , and almost starved to death before finally reaching Kawaguchi 's camp .

 In total , Kawaguchi 's forces lost about 830 killed in the attack , including 350 in Tamura 's battalion , 200 in Kokusho 's battalion , 120 in Oka 's force , 100 in the Kuma battalion , and 60 in Watanabe 's battalion .

 An unknown number of wounded also died during the withdrawal march to the Matanikau .

 On and around the ridge , the Marines counted 500 Japanese dead , including 200 on the slopes of Hill 123 .

 The Marines suffered 80 killed between 12 and 14 September .

 The Marines were ambushed by two Japanese companies acting as rear @-@ guards for the withdrawal , and one Marine platoon was pinned down as the rest of the Marines retreated .

 The Marine company commander requested permission to attempt to rescue his platoon but was denied by Vandegrift .

 As the Japanese regrouped west of the Matanikau , the U.S. forces concentrated on shoring up and strengthening their Lunga defenses .

 On 14 September , Vandegrift moved another battalion , the 3rd Battalion , 2nd Marine Regiment ( 3 / 2 ) , from Tulagi to Guadalcanal .

 These reinforcements allowed Vandegrift — beginning on 19 September — to establish an unbroken line of defense around the Lunga perimeter .

 = = Significance = =

 On 15 September , General Hyakutake at Rabaul learned of Kawaguchi 's defeat , the Imperial Japanese Army 's first defeat involving a unit of this size in the war .

 The general forwarded the news to the Imperial General Headquarters in Japan .

 In an emergency session , the top Japanese army and navy command staffs concluded that , " Guadalcanal might develop into the decisive battle of the war . "

 The results of the battle began to have a telling strategic impact on Japanese operations in other areas of the Pacific .

 After delivering more forces during the next month the Japanese mounted a major ground offensive on Guadalcanal , led by Hyakutake , in late October 1942 at the Battle for Henderson Field , but it resulted in an even more decisive defeat for the Japanese .

 = New Jersey Route 50 =

 Route 50 is a state highway in the southern part of the U.S. state of New Jersey .

 The portion of current Route 50 between Seaville and Petersburg received funding in 1910 to become a spur of the Ocean Highway .

 Route 50 was designated onto its current alignment in 1927 , replacing this portion of pre @-@ 1927 Route 14 .

 In 1960 , a freeway was proposed for Route 50 , running from the Garden State Parkway in Dennis Township to US 30 in Mullica Township .

 This proposal was canceled by the mid @-@ 1970s due to financial and environmental concerns as well as lack of traffic .

 The interchange between Route 50 and the Atlantic City Expressway was reconstructed into a full interchange , with completion in June 2010 .

 = = Route description = =

 Route 50 begins at an intersection with US 9 in the Seaville section of Upper Township , Cape May County , heading to the north on a two @-@ lane undivided road .

 From the southern terminus , a ramp provides access to and from the southbound Garden State Parkway .

 The road heads north through mostly rural wooded areas with some buildings .

 It intersects CR 671 in Greenfield before coming to a junction with CR 616 .

 At this crossing , the road runs closely parallel to a Conrail Shared Assets Operations railroad line before entering Petersburg , where it splits from the railroad tracks and comes to a crossroad with CR 610 .

 It continues to Tuckahoe and comes to CR 669 .

 Past this intersection , the route meets CR 557 and CR 664 .

 Route 50 forms a concurrency with CR 557 and the two routes head north and encounter the eastern terminus of Route 49 before leaving Tuckahoe .

 Not far after Route 49 , the road crosses the Tuckahoe River into Corbin City , Atlantic County .

 In Corbin City , it heads into residential areas , with CR 611 looping to the west of the route .

 Route 50 and CR 557 continue northwest and intersect CR 648 , where the road turns north into more forested areas .

 At the junction with CR 645 , the route turns to the northeast and enters Estell Manor , becoming Broad Street .

 CR 557 splits from Route 50 by heading northwest on Buena Tuckahoe Road and Route 50 heads through some agricultural clearings concurrent with CR 557 Truck , passing to the west of the MacNamara Wildlife Area , which is known as a breeding ground for several species of birds .

 The route intersects CR 637 , turning to the northeast .

 After passing some homes and Stephen Lake , the road turns to the north and passes to the west of Estell Manor County Park .

 The route crosses the South River into Weymouth Township , passing the residential community of Belcoville to the east and meeting CR 669 .

 It soon enters Hamilton Township , where the name of the road becomes Mill Street and it comes to a junction with US 40 ( Harding Highway ) .

 US 40 and NJ 50 follow the Harding Highway , a two @-@ lane undivided road , turning to the northeast and crossing the Great Egg Harbor River .

 Upon passing over the river , enters Mays Landing and turns north , encountering CR 617 before passing over an abandoned railroad line and heading into the downtown area of Mays Landing .

 Here , the road crosses CR 559 , and US 40 splits from NJ 50 by turning east along that road .

 The route turns to the northeast , passing near the Clover Leaf Lakes residential development , before coming to an interchange with US 322 ( Black Horse Pike ) .

 Past this interchange , Route 50 widens to a four @-@ lane divided highway and reaches a full interchange with the Atlantic City Expressway .

 The route becomes a two @-@ lane undivided road again and continues through inhabited areas , crossing into Galloway Township , where there is an intersection with CR 686 .

 A short distance later , the road crosses New Jersey Transit ’ s Atlantic City Line near the Egg Harbor City Station and enters Egg Harbor City , turning into Philadelphia Avenue .

 A block after the railroad crossing , Route 50 ends at an intersection with US 30 and CR 563 ( White Horse Pike ) , with CR 563 continuing north on Philadelphia Avenue at this point .

 Route 50 is an important route linking the Atlantic City Expressway with the Jersey Shore resorts in Cape May County , serving as an alternate to more congested routes .

 It also serves as evacuation route from Cape May County to inland areas in the event of a hurricane .

 = = History = =

 The portion of current Route 50 between Seaville and Petersburg received funding to become a spur of the Ocean Highway in 1910 .

 The modern @-@ day alignment of Route 50 was legislated as part of pre @-@ 1927 Route 14 in 1917 , a route that was to run from Cape May to Egg Harbor City .

 Route 50 retained its current routing in the 1953 New Jersey state highway renumbering .

 This proposed freeway was intended to provide economic development to the region as well as provide a better route to the Jersey Shore resorts of Cape May County for travelers from the Delaware Valley .

 However , this freeway was canceled by the mid @-@ 1970s due to financial and environmental concerns as well as lack of traffic along Route 50 .

 On November 21 , 2008 , construction began on making the interchange with the Atlantic City Expressway a full interchange as part of a series of improvements set for the Atlantic City Expressway .

 This project was completed on June 18 , 2010 .

 = = Major intersections = =

 = Air Rhodesia Flight 825 =

 An attempted belly landing in a cotton field just west of Karoi was foiled by an unseen ditch , which caused the plane to cartwheel and break up .

 Of the 52 passengers and four crew , 38 died in this crash ; the insurgents then approached the wreckage , rounded up the 10 survivors they could see and massacred them with automatic gunfire .

 Three passengers survived by hiding in the surrounding bush , while a further five lived because they had gone to look for water before the guerrillas arrived .

 ZIPRA leader Joshua Nkomo publicly claimed responsibility for shooting down the Hunyani in an interview with the BBC 's Today programme the same evening , saying the aircraft had been used for military purposes , but denied that his men had killed survivors on the ground .

 The majority of Rhodesians , both black and white , saw the attack as an act of terrorism .

 A fierce white Rhodesian backlash followed against perceived enemies , with many whites becoming violently resentful and suspicious of blacks in general , even though few black Rhodesians supported attacks of this kind .

 Reports viewing the attack negatively appeared in international journals such as Time magazine , but there was almost no acknowledgement of it by overseas governments , much to the Rhodesian government 's indignation .

 Talks between Nkomo and Prime Minister Ian Smith , which had been progressing promisingly , were immediately suspended by the furious Rhodesians , with Smith calling Nkomo a " monster " .

 On 10 September , Smith announced the extension of martial law over selected areas .

 The attack on ZIPRA in particular brought great controversy as many of those killed were refugees camping in and around guerrilla positions .

 = = Background = =

 A dispute over the terms for the granting of full sovereignty to the self @-@ governing colony of Rhodesia ( or Southern Rhodesia ) led the colonial government , headed by Prime Minister Ian Smith , to unilaterally declare independence from the United Kingdom on 11 November 1965 .

 Britain and the United Nations imposed economic sanctions on Rhodesia .

 These guerrilla armies proceeded to wage what they called the " Second Chimurenga " against the Rhodesian government and security forces .

 The resulting conflict , the Rhodesian Bush War , began in earnest in December 1972 , when ZANLA attacked Altena and Whistlefield Farms in north @-@ eastern Rhodesia .

 After the security forces mounted a successful counter @-@ insurgency campaign during 1973 and 1974 , developments overseas caused the conflict 's momentum to shift in the insurgents ' favour .

 The leftist Carnation Revolution of April 1974 caused Portugal to withdraw its key economic support for Smith 's administration , and led to Mozambique 's independence the following year as a communist state openly allied with ZANU .

 Around the same time , Rhodesia 's other main backer , South Africa , adopted a détente initiative that forced a ceasefire , giving the guerrillas time to regroup .

 Following the abortive Victoria Falls Conference of August 1975 , Smith and the ZAPU leader Joshua Nkomo held unsuccessful talks between December 1975 and March 1976 .

 This created a joint black – white transitional government , with the country due to be reconstituted as Zimbabwe Rhodesia in June 1979 , pursuant to multiracial elections .

 ZANU and ZAPU were invited to participate , but refused ; Nkomo sardonically dubbed Smith 's black colleagues " the blacksmiths " .

 ZANU proclaimed 1978 to be " The Year of the People " as the war continued .

 Officials from Muzorewa 's United African National Council , sent to the provinces to explain the Internal Settlement to rural blacks , were killed by Marxist – Leninist guerrillas .

 Insurgents also began to target Christian missionaries , climaxing in the killing of nine British missionaries and four children at Elim Mission near the Mozambican border on 23 June .

 No country recognised Rhodesia 's interim administration .

 Starting on 14 August 1978 , he attended secret meetings with Nkomo in Lusaka , Zambia ( where ZAPU was based ) , doing so with the assistance of the mining corporation Lonrho .

 Attempts were made to also involve the ZANU leader Robert Mugabe , but Mugabe would have no part in the talks .

 On 2 September , Smith and Nkomo revealed publicly that the secret meetings had taken place .

 = = Incident = =

 Some Rhodesian Air Force Dakotas had been hit , but all had survived and landed safely .

 No civilian aircraft had yet been targeted during the Bush War .

 = = = Flight = = =

 Based at Salisbury Airport , Air Rhodesia 's flight network during the late 1970s comprised a domestic programme of passenger and cargo flights , as well as international services to the South African cities of Johannesburg and Durban .

 The Flight 825 aircraft was a Vickers Viscount 782D , a British @-@ made turboprop aircraft with two engines on each wing .

 It was named the Hunyani after the river of the same name , which flowed between Lake Kariba and the Rhodesian capital Salisbury .

 The Hunyani was on the second and final leg of its regular scheduled journey between Victoria Falls and Salisbury , stopping over in the resort town of Kariba .

 Despite the occasional rocket and mortar attacks launched on Kariba by ZIPRA guerrillas on the northern side of the Zambezi ( in Zambia ) , the resort had endured as one of Rhodesia 's choice tourist destinations .

 The flight on 3 September 1978 , Sunday afternoon , from Kariba to Salisbury carried four crew members and 52 passengers , most of whom were holidaymakers from Salisbury , returning home after a weekend at the lake .

 Flight 825 was piloted by 36 @-@ year @-@ old Captain John Hood , a native of Bulawayo who had gained his commercial pilot licence in 1966 .

 His first officer , Garth Beaumont , was 31 years old , and had lived in Rhodesia for most of his life , having immigrated as a child from South Africa .

 = = = Shootdown = = =

 The heat @-@ seeking missile hit the plane 's starboard wing and exploded , causing the inner engine to also explode .

 A fuel tank and hydraulic lines ruptured , creating a fire that the passengers and crew could not put out .

 The second starboard engine failed almost immediately , leaving Hood with only his two port engines .

 Heaving wildly , the Hunyani began to descend rapidly .

 We 're going in , " he radioed .

 Telling his passengers to brace for an emergency landing , he aimed for an open field of cotton in the Whamira Hills , in the bush to the west of Karoi , intending to belly land the craft .

 The landing was relatively stable until the Hunyani hit a previously unseen ditch , cartwheeled and exploded .

 The remaining fuel tanks ruptured and caught fire , setting the wrecked cabin ablaze .

 Of the 56 people on board , 38 , including Hood and Beaumont , died in the crash .

 Eighteen survived , albeit with injuries , and climbed out of the wreckage .

 The other 13 remained close to the wreckage .

 Three of the 13 survivors remaining at the crash site hid on seeing figures approaching :

 Rhodesian Army reservist Anthony Hill , 39 , took cover in the surrounding bush , while businessman Hans Hansen and his wife Diana did the same .

 This left 10 passengers in full view near the wreckage , including four women and two girls ( aged 11 and 4 ) .

 They spoke in English , both to the survivors and among themselves .

 The passengers were assembled into an area of about 10 square metres ( 110 sq ft ) .

 Standing roughly 15 metres ( 49 ft ) away , the cadres now raised their weapons . "

 Please don 't shoot us ! " one of the passengers cried , just before they were killed by a sustained burst of automatic gunfire .

 Thinking it was personal ammunition in the luggage exploding in the heat , they continued on their way , and called out to the other passengers , who they thought were still alive .

 This alerted the insurgents to the presence of more survivors ; one of the guerrillas told MacLaren 's group to " come here " .

 The insurgents then opened fire on their general location , prompting MacLaren and the others to flee .

 Hill and the Hansens also ran ; they revealed their positions to the fighters in their haste , but successfully hid themselves behind a ridge .

 After Hill and the others had hidden there for about two hours , they saw the attackers return to the crash site at about 19 : 45 .

 The guerrillas looted the wrecked cabin and some of the suitcases strewn around the site , filled their arms with various passengers ' belongings , then left again .

 The survivors were found over the following days by the Rhodesian Army and police ; Hill and Mr and Mrs Hansen were taken to Kariba Hospital , while MacLaren and his group were airlifted to Andrew Fleming Hospital in Salisbury .

 Nkomo claimed responsibility for the attack in an interview with the BBC 's Today radio programme the next day , laughing as he did so , to the horror of most Rhodesian observers , both black and white .

 He said that he had received intelligence that the Hunyani was being used for military purposes .

 Nkomo said he regretted the deaths as it was not his party 's policy to kill civilians , and denied that his men had killed any survivors on the ground ; by contrast , he said that his men had helped them , and had left them alive .

 He also accused Air Rhodesia of surreptitiously hauling troops and war materiel for the government , an allegation that Captain Pat Travers , Air Rhodesia 's general manager , called a " downright , deliberate lie " .

 ZIPRA intelligence knew there were paratroopers stationed [ at Victoria Falls ] " .

 = = Reactions = =

 = = = White Rhodesians turn against blacks = = =

 The prominent Indian @-@ Rhodesian Gulab family was particularly affected by the incident , having lost eight members in the attack .

 Smith wrote in his memoirs that the " degree of anger ... [ was ] difficult to control " . White South Africans were similarly enraged , particularly after reports appeared in the South African press that the killers had raped the female passengers before massacring them .

 A Friends of Rhodesia Society in South Africa offered a reward of R100,000 to anybody who would either kill Nkomo or bring him to Salisbury to stand trial .

 Describing the Herald newsroom the night of the incident , he relates a " vile collective temper " among the white sub @-@ editors :

 "

 They cursed until their voices became hoarse , threatening dire consequences for all terrs and munts or kaffirs ...

 I sensed that some of the more derogatory remarks made in unnecessarily loud voices that evening were meant specifically for my ears . "

 Several racially motivated incidents occurred over the following days .

 According to the Time article , a group of whites entered an unsegregated Salisbury bar " fingering the triggers of rifles " and forced blacks drinking there to leave .

 Time also reported a rumour that two white youths , on learning of the massacre , shot the first black man they saw .

 Smith says that several would @-@ be vigilante groups sought his permission to venture into the bush around the crash site to " make the local people pay for their crime of harbouring and assisting the terrorists " .

 Many Rhodesians also resented the apparent lack of sympathy emanating from overseas governments , especially considering the character of the attack and its civilian target .

 Smith and several government ministers also attended , including P K van der Byl , the co @-@ Minister of Foreign Affairs .

 Dean John de Costa gave a sermon damning what he described as a " deafening silence " from overseas .

 But are we deafened with the voice of protest from nations who call themselves civilised ?

 We are not !

 Like men in the story of the Good Samaritan , they pass by on the other side ...

 The ghastliness of this ill @-@ fated flight from Kariba will be burnt upon our memories for years to come .

 Here is the tragedy ! "

 The talks between Smith and the ZAPU leader that had been progressing so promisingly were immediately halted by Salisbury .

 Smith himself called Nkomo a " monster " .

 He surmises that an agreement between the two " at this critical stage " might have helped the transitional Rhodesian government to secure international recognition .

 On 10 September , the Prime Minister announced to the nation that certain areas of the country would be placed under a variation of martial law , which he said would be applied in particular regions as and when needed .

 He declared Rhodesia 's intent to " liquidate the internal workings of those organisations associated with terrorism " , and warned neighbouring countries to prepare for " any defensive strikes we might undertake " against guerrilla bases in their respective territories .

 He claimed that the war had escalated because Britain and the United States were supporting the Patriotic Front .

 William Irvine , the co @-@ Minister of Transport , warned the guerrillas that Rhodesia " w [ ould ] not let these innocents go unavenged " .

 = = Rhodesia strikes back = =

 In a combined airborne @-@ ground assault called Operation Snoopy , the Rhodesian Air Force , Rhodesian Light Infantry and Special Air Service wiped out much of New Chimoio on 20 September 1978 .

 According to Rhodesian figures , there were " several hundred " guerrillas killed , while the security forces lost only two soldiers , one of whom was accidentally killed by a friendly air strike .

 Rhodesia then attacked ZIPRA 's bases in Zambia , in what Group Captain Peter Petter @-@ Bowyer later described as " payback time " for Flight 825 .

 ZIPRA presumed that Rhodesia would never dare to attack a site so close to Lusaka .

 The Zambians obeyed all of Green Leader 's instructions , made no attempt to resist and temporarily halted civil air traffic .

 Using Rufunsa airstrip in eastern Zambia as a forward base , the Rhodesian military suffered only minor casualties during the three @-@ day operation , and afterwards claimed to have killed over 1 @ , @ 500 ZIPRA personnel , as well as some Cuban instructors .

 He claims that the Red Cross and the UN Refugee Agency " confirmed ZAPU 's claim that Smith 's forces struck at defenseless , civilian trainees " .

 = = Aftermath = =

 Nkomo and the Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda all the same requested further military aid and better weapons from the Soviets and the British respectively .

 Martial law was quickly extended across Rhodesia 's rural areas , and covered three @-@ quarters of the country by the end of 1978 .

 Air Rhodesia , meanwhile , began developing anti @-@ Strela shielding for its Viscounts .

 Before this work was completed , ZIPRA shot down a second Viscount , Air Rhodesia Flight 827 , on 12 February 1979 .

 This time there were no survivors .

 There were no further Viscount shootdowns in Rhodesia .

 In the elections held the following year under the Internal Settlement terms , boycotted by ZANU and ZAPU , Muzorewa won a majority , and became the first Prime Minister of the reconstituted , majority @-@ ruled state of Zimbabwe Rhodesia on 1 June 1979 .

 The UK government suspended the constitution and took direct control for an interim period .

 = = Legacy and memorial = =

 State media in Zimbabwe , prominently the Herald newspaper , often claim that Rhodesian forces indiscriminately and deliberately slaughtered thousands of helpless refugees during such operations .

 ZIPRA 's downing of civilian planes is meanwhile portrayed as a legitimate act of war on the grounds that the guerrillas might have believed them to have military personnel or equipment on board .

 A monument to those killed in the Rhodesian attack on Chikumbi was built in Zambia in 1998 , and dedicated jointly by the Zambian and Zimbabwean governments .

 A memorial to the victims of the two Rhodesian Viscount incidents , dubbed the Viscount Memorial , was erected on the grounds of the Voortrekker Monument in Pretoria , South Africa in 2012 , and inaugurated on 1 September that year .

 The names of the dead passengers and crew are engraved on two granite slabs that stand upright , side by side , the pair topped by an emblem symbolising an aircraft .

 A pole beside the monument flies the Rhodesian flag .

 A British parliamentary motion put forward by Labour MP Kate Hoey in February 2013 to retrospectively condemn the Viscount attacks and memorialise the victims on the anniversary of the second shootdown prompted outcry in the Zimbabwean press , with the Herald branding it a racist " Rhodie motion " intended to antagonise the Mugabe administration and its supporters .

 Dumiso Dabengwa , a former ZIPRA commander , described the move as a provocation motivated by race that went against the spirit of the amnesty enacted at Lancaster House .

 Christopher Mutsvangwa , a diplomat and political analyst , took a similar line , calling Hoey 's proposed commemoration " a provocation ... [ that ] means they only regard the death of white people alone during the struggle .

 = = = Newspaper and journal articles = = =

 = Tikal =

 Tikal ( / tiˈkäl / ) ( Tik ’ al in modern Mayan orthography ) is the ruins of an ancient city found in a rainforest in Guatemala .

 After the Berlin Academy of Sciences ' magazine republished the report in 1853 , archeologists and treasure hunters began visiting the forest .

 Today tourism to the site may help protect the rainforest .

 It is one of the largest archaeological sites and urban centers of the pre @-@ Columbian Maya civilization .

 It is located in the archaeological region of the Petén Basin in what is now northern Guatemala .

 Situated in the department of El Petén , the site is part of Guatemala 's Tikal National Park and in 1979 it was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site .

 Tikal was the capital of a conquest state that became one of the most powerful kingdoms of the ancient Maya .

 There is evidence that Tikal was conquered by Teotihuacan in the 4th century AD .

 Following the end of the Late Classic Period , no new major monuments were built at Tikal and there is evidence that elite palaces were burned .

 These events were coupled with a gradual population decline , culminating with the site ’ s abandonment by the end of the 10th century .

 Tikal is the best understood of any of the large lowland Maya cities , with a long dynastic ruler list , the discovery of the tombs of many of the rulers on this list and the investigation of their monuments , temples and palaces .

 = = Etymology = =

 The name was apparently applied to one of the site 's ancient reservoirs by hunters and travelers in the region .

 It has alternatively been interpreted as meaning " the place of the voices " in the Itza Maya language .

 The kingdom as a whole was simply called Mutul , which is the reading of the " hair bundle " emblem glyph seen in the accompanying photo .

 Its precise meaning remains obscure .

 = = Location = =

 Tikal is approximately 303 kilometres ( 188 mi ) north of Guatemala City .

 It is 19 kilometres ( 12 mi ) south of the contemporary Maya city of Uaxactun and 30 kilometres ( 19 mi ) northwest of Yaxha .

 The city was located 100 kilometres ( 62 mi ) southeast of its great Classic Period rival , Calakmul , and 85 kilometres ( 53 mi ) northwest of Calakmul 's ally Caracol , now in Belize .

 The city has been completely mapped and covered an area greater than 16 square kilometres ( 6 @.@ 2 sq mi ) that included about 3 @ , @ 000 structures .

 The topography of the site consists of a series of parallel limestone ridges rising above swampy lowlands .

 The major architecture of the site is clustered upon areas of higher ground and linked by raised causeways spanning the swamps .

 The area around Tikal has been declared as the Tikal National Park and the preserved area covers 570 square kilometres ( 220 sq mi ) .

 The ruins lie among the tropical rainforests of northern Guatemala that formed the cradle of lowland Maya civilization .

 The city itself was located among abundant fertile upland soils , and may have dominated a natural east – west trade route across the Yucatan Peninsula .

 Jaguars , jaguarundis , and cougars are also said to roam in the park .

 For centuries this city was completely covered under jungle .

 The average annual rainfall at Tikal is 1 @ , @ 945 millimetres ( 76 @.@ 6 in ) .

 Archaeologists working in Tikal during the 20th century refurbished one of these ancient reservoirs to store water for their own use .

 The Tikal National Park covers an area of 575 @.@ 83 square kilometres ( 222 @.@ 33 sq mi ) .

 = = Population = =

 The population of Tikal began a continuous curve of growth starting in the Preclassic Period ( approximately 2000 BC – AD 200 ) , with a peak in the Late Classic with the population growing rapidly from AD 700 through to 830 , followed by a sharp decline .

 For the 120 square kilometres ( 46 sq mi ) area falling within the earthwork defenses of the hinterland , the peak population is estimated at 517 per square kilometer ( 1340 per square mile ) .

 These population figures are even more impressive because of the extensive swamplands that were unsuitable for habitation or agriculture .

 However , some archaeologists , such as David Webster , believe these figures to be far too high .

 = = Rulers = =

 The dynastic line of Tikal , founded as early as the 1st century AD , spanned 800 years and included at least 33 rulers .

 = = History = =

 = = = Preclassic = = =

 There are traces of early agriculture at the site dating as far back as 1000 BC , in the Middle Preclassic .

 A cache of Mamon ceramics dating from about 700 @-@ 400 BC were found in a sealed chultun , a subterranean bottle @-@ shaped chamber .

 Two temples dating to Late Chikanel times had masonry @-@ walled superstructures that may have been corbel @-@ vaulted , although this has not been proven .

 One of these had elaborate paintings on the outer walls showing human figures against a scrollwork background , painted in yellow , black , pink and red .

 In the 1st century AD rich burials first appeared and Tikal underwent a political and cultural florescence as its giant northern neighbors declined .

 At the end of the Late Preclassic , the Izapan style art and architecture from the Pacific Coast began to influence Tikal , as demonstrated by a broken sculpture from the acropolis and early murals at the city .

 = = = Early Classic = = =

 Dynastic rulership among the lowland Maya is most deeply rooted at Tikal .

 According to later hieroglyphic records , the dynasty was founded by Yax @-@ Moch @-@ Xoc , perhaps in the 3rd century AD .

 At the beginning of the Early Classic , power in the Maya region was concentrated at Tikal and Calakmul , in the core of the Maya heartland .

 Tikal may have benefited from the collapse of the large Preclassic states such as El Mirador .

 In the Early Classic Tikal rapidly developed into the most dynamic city in the Maya region , stimulating the development of other nearby Maya cities .

 The site was defeated at the end of the Early Classic by Caracol , which rose to take Tikal 's place as the paramount center in the southern Maya lowlands .

 The earlier part of the Early Classic saw hostilities between Tikal and its neighbor Uaxactun , with Uaxactun recording the capture of prisoners from Tikal .

 Chak Tok Ich ' aak built a palace that was preserved and developed by later rulers until it became the core of the Central Acropolis .

 Little is known about Chak Tok Ich ' aak except that he was killed on 14 January 378 AD .

 On the same day , Siyah K ’ ak ’ ( Fire Is Born ) arrived from the west , having passed through El Peru , a site to the west of Tikal , on 8 January .

 On Stela 31 he is named as " Lord of the West " . Siyah K ’ ak ’ was probably a foreign general serving a figure represented by a non @-@ Maya hieroglyph of a spearthrower combined with an owl , a glyph that is well known from the great metropolis of Teotihuacan in the distant Valley of Mexico .

 Spearthrower

 These recorded events strongly suggest that Siyah K ’ ak ’ led a Teotihuacan invasion that defeated the native Tikal king , who was captured and immediately executed .

 He also exerted control over other cities in the area , including Uaxactun , where he became king , but did not take the throne of Tikal for himself .

 He reigned for 47 years as king of Tikal , and remained a vassal of Siyah K 'ak ' for as long as the latter lived .

 Río Azul , a small site 100 kilometres ( 62 mi ) northeast of Tikal , was conquered by the latter during the reign of Yax Nuun Ayiin I .

 Although the new rulers of Tikal were foreign , their descendants were rapidly Mayanized .

 Tikal became the key ally and trading partner of Teotihuacan in the Maya lowlands .

 After being conquered by Teotihuacan , Tikal rapidly dominated the northern and eastern Peten .

 Uaxactun , together with smaller towns in the region , were absorbed into Tikal 's kingdom .

 Other sites , such as Bejucal and Motul de San José near Lake Petén Itzá became vassals of their more powerful neighbor to the north .

 By the middle of the 5th century Tikal had a core territory of at least 25 kilometres ( 16 mi ) in every direction .

 Around the 5th century an impressive system of fortifications consisting of ditches and earthworks was built along the northern periphery of Tikal 's hinterland , joining up with the natural defenses provided by large areas of swampland lying to the east and west of the city .

 Additional fortifications were probably also built to the south .

 These defenses protected Tikal 's core population and agricultural resources , encircling an area of approximately 120 square kilometres ( 46 sq mi ) .

 Recent research suggests that the earthworks served as a water collection system rather than a defensive purpose .

 In the 5th century the power of the city reached as far south as Copán , whose founder K 'inich Yax K 'uk ' Mo ' was clearly connected with Tikal .

 K 'inich Yax K 'uk ' Mo ' arrived in Copán in December 426 and bone analysis of his remains shows that he passed his childhood and youth at Tikal .

 An individual known as Ajaw K 'uk ' Mo ' ( lord K 'uk ' Mo ' ) is referred to in an early text at Tikal and may well be the same person .

 His tomb had Teotihuacan characteristics and he was depicted in later portraits dressed in the warrior garb of Teotihuacan .

 Hieroglyphic texts refer to him as " Lord of the West " , much like Siyah K ’ ak ’ .

 At the same time , in late 426 , Copán founded the nearby site of Quiriguá , possibly sponsored by Tikal itself .

 The founding of these two centers may have been part of an effort to impose Tikal 's authority upon the southeastern portion of the Maya region .

 The interaction between these sites and Tikal was intense over the next three centuries .

 The kings of these two capitals adopted the title kaloomte ' , a term that has not been precisely translated but that implies something akin to " high king " .

 She seems never to have ruled in her own right , rather being partnered with male co @-@ rulers .

 The Lady of Tikal herself seems not have been counted in the dynastic numbering .

 It appears she was later paired with lord " Bird Claw " , who is presumed to be the otherwise unknown 20th ruler .

 .

 = = = Late Classic = = =

 = = = = Tikal hiatus = = = =

 In the mid 6th century , Caracol seems to have allied with Calakmul and defeated Tikal , closing the Early Classic .

 In the latter half of the 6th century AD , a serious crisis befell the city , with no new stelae being erected and with widespread deliberate mutilation of public sculpture .

 This hiatus in activity at Tikal was long unexplained until later epigraphic decipherments identified that the period was prompted by Tikal 's comprehensive defeat at the hands of Calakmul and the Caracol polity in AD 562 , a defeat that seems to have resulted in the capture and sacrifice of the king of Tikal .

 The badly eroded Altar 21 at Caracol described how Tikal suffered this disastrous defeat in a major war in April 562 .

 Tikal was not sacked but its power and influence were broken .

 During the hiatus period , at least one ruler of Tikal took refuge with Janaab ' Pakal of Palenque , another of Calakmul 's victims .

 Calakmul itself thrived during Tikal 's long hiatus period .

 The beginning of the Tikal hiatus has served as a marker by which archaeologists commonly subdivide the Classic period of Mesoamerican chronology into the Early and Late Classic .

 Roughly twenty years later Dos Pilas was attacked by Calakmul and was soundly defeated .

 The first two rulers of Dos Pilas continued to use the Mutal emblem glyph of Tikal , and they probably felt that they had a legitimate claim to the throne of Tikal itself .

 Tikal counterattacked against Dos Pilas in 672 , driving B 'alaj Chan K 'awiil into an exile that lasted five years .

 Calakmul tried to encircle Tikal within an area dominated by its allies , such as El Peru , Dos Pilas and Caracol .

 He initiated a programme of new construction and turned the tables on Calakmul when , in 695 , he captured the enemy noble and threw the enemy state into a long decline from which it never fully recovered .

 By the 7th century , there was no active Teotihuacan presence at any Maya site and the center of Teotihuacan had been razed by 700 .

 Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I and his heir Yik ' in Chan K 'awiil continued hostilities against Calakmul and its allies and imposed firm regional control over the area around Tikal , extending as far as the territory around Lake Petén Itzá .

 These two rulers were responsible for much of the impressive architecture visible today .

 This upset the balance of power in the southern Maya area and lead to a steady decline in the fortunes of Copán .

 By the late 8th century and early 9th century , activity at Tikal slowed .

 Impressive architecture was still built but few hieroglyphic inscriptions refer to later rulers .

 = = = Terminal Classic = = =

 Increasingly endemic warfare in the Maya region caused Tikal 's supporting population to heavily concentrate close to the city itself , accelerating the use of intensive agriculture and corresponding environmental decline .

 Construction continued at the beginning of the century , with the erection of Temple 3 , the last of the city 's major pyramids and the erection of monuments to mark the 19th K 'atun in 810 .

 The beginning of the 10th Bak 'tun in 830 passed uncelebrated , and marks the beginning of a 60 @-@ year hiatus , probably resulting from the collapse of central control in the city .

 The sites of Ixlu and Jimbal had by now inherited the once exclusive Mutal emblem glyph .

 As Tikal and its hinterland reached peak population , the area suffered deforestation , erosion and nutrient loss followed by a rapid decline in population levels .

 Tikal and its immediate surroundings seem to have lost the majority of its population during the period from 830 to 950 and central authority seems to have collapsed rapidly .

 There is not much evidence from Tikal that the city was directly affected by the endemic warfare that afflicted parts of the Maya region during the Terminal Classic , although an influx of refugees from the Petexbatún region may have exacerbated problems resulting from the already stretched environmental resources .

 In the latter half of the 9th century there was an attempt to revive royal power at the much diminished city of Tikal , as evidenced by a stela erected in the Great Plaza by Jasaw Chan K 'awiil II in 869 .

 This was the last monument erected at Tikal before the city finally fell into silence .

 By the end of the 9th century the vast majority of Tikal 's population had deserted the city , its royal palaces were occupied by squatters and simple thatched dwellings were being erected in the city 's ceremonial plazas .

 The squatters blocked some doorways in the rooms they reoccupied in the monumental structures of the site and left rubbish that included a mixture of domestic refuse and non @-@ utilitarian items such as musical instruments .

 These inhabitants reused the earlier monuments for their own ritual activities far removed from those of the royal dynasty that had erected them .

 Some monuments were vandalized and some were moved to new locations .

 Before its final abandonment all respect for the old rulers had disappeared , with the tombs of the North Acropolis being explored for jade and the easier to find tombs being looted .

 After 950 , Tikal was all but deserted , although a remnant population may have survived in perishable huts interspersed among the ruins .

 Even these final inhabitants abandoned the city in the 10th or 11th centuries and the rainforest claimed the ruins for the next thousand years .

 Some of Tikal 's population may have migrated to the Peten Lakes region , which remained heavily populated in spite of a plunge in population levels in the first half of the 9th century .

 The most likely cause of collapse at Tikal is overpopulation and agrarian failure .

 However , new research regarding paleoenvironmental proxies from the Tikal reservoir system suggests that a meteorological drought may have led to the abandonment of Tikal .

 In 1525 , the Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés passed within a few kilometres of the ruins of Tikal but did not mention them in his letters .

 After Spanish friar Andrés de Avendaño became lost in the Petén forests in early 1696 he described a ruin that may well have been Tikal .

 It seems that local people never forgot about Tikal and they guided Guatemalan expeditions to the ruins in the 1850s .

 Artist Eusebio Lara accompanied them and their account was published in Germany in 1853 .

 Pioneering archaeologists started to clear , map and record the ruins in the 1880s .

 In 1956 the Tikal project began to map the city on a scale not previously seen in the Maya area .

 From 1956 through 1970 , major archaeological excavations were carried out by the University of Pennsylvania Tikal Project .

 They mapped much of the site and excavated and restored many of the structures .

 Excavations directed by Edwin M. Shook and later by William Coe of the university investigated the North Acropolis and the Central Plaza from 1957 to 1969 .

 The Tikal Project recorded over 200 monuments at the site .

 In 1979 , the Guatemalan government began a further archeological project at Tikal , which continued through to 1984 .

 Filmmaker George Lucas used Tikal as a filming location for the first Star Wars film , Episode IV : A New Hope , released in 1977 .

 Temple I at Tikal was featured on the reverse of the 50 centavo banknote .

 A site museum has been built at Tikal ; it was completed in 1964 .

 = = Site description = =

 Tikal has been partially restored by the University of Pennsylvania and the government of Guatemala .

 It was one of the largest of the Classic period Maya cities and was one of the largest cities in the Americas .

 There are also seven courts for playing the Mesoamerican ballgame , including a set of 3 in the Seven Temples Plaza , a unique feature in Mesoamerica .

 The limestone used for construction was local and quarried on @-@ site .

 The depressions formed by the extraction of stone for building were plastered to waterproof them and were used as reservoirs , together with some waterproofed natural depressions .

 The main plazas were surfaced with stucco and laid at a gradient that channelled rainfall into a system of canals that fed the reservoirs .

 A huge set of earthworks discovered by Dennis E. Puleston and Donald Callender in the 1960s rings Tikal with a 6 @-@ metre ( 20 ft ) wide trench behind a rampart .

 Recently , a project exploring the defensive earthworks has shown that the scale of the earthworks is highly variable and that in many places it is inconsequential as a defensive feature .

 In addition , some parts of the earthwork were integrated into a canal system .

 The earthwork of Tikal varies significantly in coverage from what was originally proposed and it is much more complex and multifaceted than originally thought .

 = = = Causeways = = =

 By the Late Classic , a network of sacbeob ( causeways ) linked various parts of the city , running for several kilometres through its urban core .

 These broad causeways were built of packed and plastered limestone and have been named after early explorers and archaeologists ; the Maler , Maudslay , Tozzer and Méndez causeways .

 They assisted the passage everyday traffic during the rain season and also served as dams .

 It depicts two bound captives and dates to the Late Classic .

 The Maudsley Causeway runs 0 @.@ 8 kilometres ( 0 @.@ 50 mi ) northeast from Temple IV to Group H.

 The Mendez Causeway runs southeast from the East Plaza to Temple VI , a distance of about 1 @.@ 3 kilometres ( 0 @.@ 81 mi ) .

 The Tozzer Causeway runs west from the Great Plaza to Temple IV .

 = = = Architectural groups = = =

 The Great Plaza lies at the core of the site ; it is flanked on the east and west sides by two great temple @-@ pyramids .

 On the north side it is bordered by the North Acropolis and on the south by the Central Acropolis .

 The Central Acropolis is a palace complex just south of the Great Plaza .

 It is a complex group with construction beginning in the Preclassic Period , around 350 BC .

 It developed into a funerary complex for the ruling dynasty of the Classic Period , with each additional royal burial adding new temples on top of the older structures .

 After AD 400 a row of tall pyramids was added to the earlier Northern Platform , which measured 100 by 80 metres ( 330 by 260 ft ) , gradually hiding it from view .

 Eight temple pyramids were built in the 6th century AD , each of them had an elaborate roofcomb and a stairway flanked by masks of the gods .

 The North Acropolis continued to receive burials into the Postclassic Period .

 The South Acropolis is found next to Temple V .

 The Plaza of the Seven Temples is to the west of the South Acropolis .

 The Mundo Perdido is to the west of the Plaza of the Seven Temples .

 The complex was organized as a large E @-@ Group consisting of a pyramid aligned with a platform to the east that supported three temples .

 The Mundo Perdido complex was rebuilt many times over the course of its history .

 From AD 250 to 378 it may have served as the royal necropolis .

 The Mundo Perdido complex was given its name by the archaeologists of the University of Pennsylvania ; it is centered upon the Lost World Pyramid and a small platform to the west of it .

 Group G lies just south of the Mendez Causeway .

 The complex dates to the Late Classic and consists of palace @-@ type structures and is one of the largest groups of its type at Tikal .

 The remains of two further chambers belong to the upper storey .

 One of the entrances to the group was framed by a gigantic mask .

 Group H is centered on a large plaza to the north of the Great Plaza .

 It is bordered by temples dating to the Late Classic .

 There are nine Twin @-@ Pyramid Complexes at Tikal , one of which was completely dismantled in ancient times and some others were partly destroyed .

 They vary in size but consist of two pyramids facing each other on an east – west axis .

 These pyramids are flat @-@ topped and have stairways on all four sides .

 A row of plain stelae is placed immediately to the west of the eastern pyramid and to the north of the pyramids , and lying roughly equidistant from them , there is usually a sculpted stela and altar pair .

 On the south side of these complexes there is a long vaulted building containing a single room with nine doorways .

 The entire complex was built at once and these complexes were built at 20 @-@ year ( or k ' atun ) intervals during the Late Classic .

 The first twin pyramid complex was built in the early 6th century in the East Plaza .

 It was built by Yax Nuun Ayiin II in 771 in order to mark the end of the 17th K 'atun .

 Most of it has been restored and its monuments have been re @-@ erected .

 It is close to the Maler Causeway .

 = = = Structures = = =

 There are thousands of ancient structures at Tikal and only a fraction of these have been excavated , after decades of archaeological work .

 The most prominent surviving buildings include six very large pyramids , labelled Temples I - VI , each of which support a temple structure on their summits .

 Some of these pyramids are over 60 metres ( 200 feet ) high .

 They were numbered sequentially during the early survey of the site .

 The temple rises 47 metres ( 154 ft ) high .

 The tomb of the king was discovered by Aubrey Trik of the University of Pennsylvania in 1962 .

 Among items recovered from the Late Classic tomb were a large collection of inscribed human and animal bone tubes and strips with sophisticated scenes depicting deities and people , finely carved and rubbed with vermilion , as well as jade and shell ornaments and ceramic vessels filled with offerings of food and drink .

 The shrine at the summit of the pyramid has three chambers , each behind the next , with the doorways spanned by wooden lintels fashioned from multiple beams .

 The outermost lintel is plain but the two inner lintels were carved , some of the beams were removed in the 19th century and their location is unknown , while others were taken to museums in Europe .

 Temple II ( also known as the Temple of the Mask ) it was built around AD 700 and stands 38 metres ( 125 ft ) high .

 The temple was dedicated to the wife of Jasaw Chan K 'awil , although no tomb was found .

 The queen 's portrait was carved into the lintel spanning the doorway of the summit shrine .

 Temple III ( also known as the Temple of the Jaguar Priest ) was the last of the great pyramids to be built at Tikal .

 It stood 55 metres ( 180 ft ) tall and contained an elaborately sculpted but damaged roof lintel , possibly showing Dark Sun engaged in a ritual dance around AD 810 .

 The temple shrine possesses two chambers .

 Temple V stands south of the Central Acropolis and is the mortuary pyramid of an as yet unidentified ruler .

 The temple stands 57 metres ( 187 ft ) high , making it the second tallest structure at Tikal - only Temple IV is taller .

 Temple VI is also known as the Temple of the Inscriptions and was dedicated in AD 766 .

 It is notable for its 12 @-@ metre ( 39 ft ) high roof @-@ comb .

 Panels of hieroglyphs cover the back and sides of the roof @-@ comb .

 The temple faces onto a plaza to the west and its front is unrestored .

 Temple 33 was a funerary pyramid erected over the tomb of Siyaj Chan K 'awiil I ( known as Burial 48 ) in the North Acropolis .

 It started life in the Early Classic as a wide basal platform decorated with large stucco masks that flanked the stairway .

 Later in the Early Classic a new superstructure was added , with its own masks and decorated panels .

 During the Hiatus a third stage was built over the earlier constructions , the stairway was demolished and another royal burial , of an unidentified ruler , was set into the structure ( Burial 23 ) .

 While the new pyramid was being built another high ranking tomb ( Burial 24 ) was inserted into the rubble core of the building .

 The pyramid was then completed , standing 33 metres ( 108 ft ) tall .

 The pyramid was topped by a three chambered shrine , the rooms situated one behind the other .

 It is built into the end of the East Plaza Ballcourt and possessed four entry doorways and three stairways , the fourth ( south ) side was too close to the Central Acropolis for a stairway on that side .

 The building has a talud @-@ tablero platform profile , modified from the original style found at Teotihuacan .

 In fact , it has been suggested that the style of the building has closer affinities with El Tajin and Xochicalco than with Teotihuacan itself .

 The vertical tablero panels are set between sloping talud panels and are decorated with paired disc symbols .

 Large flower symbols are set into the sloping talud panels , related to the Venus and star symbols used at Teotihuacan .

 The roof of the structure was decorated with friezes although only fragments now remain , showing a monstrous face , perhaps that of a jaguar , with another head emerging from the mouth .

 The second head possesses a bifurcated tongue but is probably not that of a snake .

 The temple , and its associated ballcourt , probably date to the reign of Nuun Ujol Chaak or that of his son Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I , in the later part of the 7th century .

 Structure 5C @-@ 49 possesses a clear Teotihuacan @-@ linked architectural style ; it has balustrades , an architectural feature that is very rare in the Maya region , and a talud @-@ tablero façade ; it dates to the 4th century AD .

 It is located near to the Lost World pyramid .

 It had stairways on all four sides and did not possess a superstructure .

 The Lost World Pyramid ( Structure 5C @-@ 54 ) is the largest structure in the Mundo Perdido complex .

 It lies in the southwest portion of Tikal ’ s central core , south of Temple III and west of Temple V .

 It was decorated with stucco masks of the sun god and dates to the Late Preclassic ; this pyramid is part of an enclosed complex of structures that remained intact and un @-@ impacted by later building activity at Tikal .

 By the end of the Late Preclassic this pyramid was one of the largest structures in the Maya region .

 Structure 5D @-@ 96 is the central temple on the east side of the Plaza of the Seven Temples .

 It has been restored and its rear outer wall is decorated with skull @-@ and @-@ crossbones motifs .

 It lies a few hundred metres south of the Lost World Complex and the excavations have revealed elaborate stucco masks , ballplayer murals , relief sculptures and buildings with Teotihuacan characteristics .

 The Great Plaza Ballcourt is a small ballcourt that lies between Temple I and the Central Acropolis .

 The Bat Palace is also known as the Palace of Windows and lies to the west of Temple III .

 It has two storeys , with a double range of chambers on the lower storey and a single range in the upper storey , which has been restored .

 The palace has ancient graffiti and possesses low windows .

 Complex N lies to the west of the Bat Palace and Temple III .

 The complex dates to AD 711 .

 = = = Altars = = =

 Altar 5 is carved with two nobles , one of whom is probably Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I .

 They are performing a ritual using the bones of an important woman .

 Altar 5 was found in Complex N , which lies to the west of Temple III .

 Altar 8 is sculpted with a bound captive .

 Altar 9 is associated with Stela 21 and bears the sculpture of a bound captive .

 It is located in front of Temple VI .

 Altar 10 is carved with a captive tied to a scaffold .

 Altar 35 is a plain monument associated with Stela 43 .

 The stela @-@ altar pair is centrally located at the base of the stairway of Temple IV .

 = = = Lintels = = =

 At Tikal , beams of sapodilla wood were placed as lintels spanning the inner doorways of temples .

 Lintel 3 from Temple IV was taken to Basel in Switzerland in the 19th century .

 It was in almost perfect condition and depicts Yik 'in Chan K 'awiil seated on a palanquin .

 = = = Stelae = = =

 Stelae are carved stone shafts , often sculpted with figures and hieroglyphs .

 A selection of the most notable stelae at Tikal follows :

 Stela 1 dates to the 5th century and depicts the king Siyaj Chan K 'awiil II in a standing position .

 The stela displays a mix of Maya and Teotihuacan qualities , and deities from both cultures .

 It has a portrait of the king with the Underworld Jaguar God under one arm and the Mexican Tlaloc under the other .

 His helmet is a simplified version of the Teotihuacan War Serpent .

 Stela 5 was dedicated in 744 by Yik ' in Chan K 'awiil .

 Stela 10 is twinned with Stela 12 but is badly damaged .

 Stela 12 is linked to the queen known as the " Lady of Tikal " and king Kaloomte ' B 'alam .

 The queen is described as performing the year @-@ ending rituals but the monument was dedicated in honor of the king .

 Stela 16 was dedicated in 711 , during the reign of Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I .

 The sculpture , including a portrait of the king and a hieroglyphic text , are limited to the front face of the monument .

 It was found in Complex N , west of Temple III .

 Stela 18 was one of two stelae erected by Yax Nuun Ayiin I to celebrate the k ' atun @-@ ending of AD 396 .

 It was re @-@ erected at the base of Temple 34 , his funerary shrine .

 Stela 19 was dedicated in 790 by Yax Nuun Ayiin II .

 Stela 20 was found in Complex P , in Group H , and was moved to the Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología in Guatemala City .

 Stela 21 was dedicated in 736 by Yik ' in Chan K 'awiil .

 Only the bottom of the stela is intact , the rest having been mutilated in ancient times .

 The stela is associated with Altar 9 and is located in front of Temple VI .

 Stela 22 was dedicated in 771 by Yax Nuun Ayiin II in the northern enclosure of Group Q , a twin @-@ pyramid complex .

 The face of the figure on the stela has been mutilated .

 Stela 23 was broken in antiquity and was re @-@ erected in a residential complex .

 The defaced portrait on the monument is that of the so @-@ called " Lady of Tikal " , a daughter of Chak Tok Ich ' aak II who became queen at the age of six but never ruled in her own right , being paired with male co @-@ rulers .

 It dates to the early 6th century .

 Stela 24 was erected at the foot of Temple 3 in 810 , accompanied by Altar 7 .

 Both were broken into fragments in ancient times , although the name of Dark Sun survives on three fragments .

 Stela 26 was found in the summit shrine of Temple 34 , underneath a broken masonry altar .

 Its remains were then interred within the temple shrine .

 It bears a sculpture of the king facing to the right , holding the head of an underworld jaguar god , one of the patron deities of the city .

 Its style and iconography is similar to that of Caracol , one of the more important of Tikal 's enemies .

 He carries a spearthrower in one hand and bears a shield decorated with the face of Tlaloc , the Teotihuacan war god .

 In ancient times the sculpture was broken and the upper portion was moved to the summit of Temple 33 and ritually buried .

 Stela 31 has been described as the greatest Early Classic sculpture to survive at Tikal .

 A long hieroglyphic text is carved onto the back of the monument , the longest to survive from the Early Classic , which describes the arrival of Siyah K 'ak ' at El Peru and Tikal in January 378 .

 Stela 39 is a broken monument that was erected in the Lost World complex .

 He is trampling the figure of a bound , richly dressed captive .

 The monument is dated to AD 376 .

 The text on the back of the monument describes a bloodletting ritual to celebrate a Katun @-@ ending .

 The stela also names Chak Tok Ich ' aak I 's father as K 'inich Muwaan Jol .

 Stela 40 bears a portrait of Kan Chitam and dates to AD 468 .

 Stela 43 is paired with Altar 35 .

 It is a plain monument at the base of the stairway of Temple IV .

 = = = Burials = = =

 Burial 1 is a tomb in the Lost World complex .

 A fine ceramic bowl was recovered from the tomb , with the handle formed from three @-@ dimensional head and neck of a bird emerging from the two @-@ dimensional body painted on the lid .

 It is located beneath Structure 34 in the North Acropolis .

 The tomb contained a rich array of offerings , including ceramic vessels and food , and nine youths were sacrificed to accompany the dead king .

 A dog was also entombed with the deceased king .

 Pots in the tomb were stuccoed and painted and many demonstrated a blend of Maya and Teotihuacan styles .

 Among the offerings was an incense @-@ burner in the shape of an elderly underworld god , sitting on a stool made of human bones and holding a severed head in his hands .

 The tomb was sealed with a corbel vault , then the pyramid was built on top .

 Burial 48 is generally accepted as the tomb of Siyaj Chan K 'awil .

 It is located beneath Temple 33 in the North Acropolis .

 The chamber of the tomb was cut from the bedrock and contained the remains of the king himself together with those of two adolescents who had been sacrificed in order to accompany the deceased ruler .

 The walls of the tomb were covered with white stucco painted with hieroglyphs that included the Long Count date equivalent to 20 March 457 , probably the date of either the death or interment of the king .

 The king 's skeleton was missing its skull , its femurs and one of its hands while the skeletons of the sacrificial victims were intact .

 Burial 85 dates to the Late Preclassic and was enclosed by a platform , with a primitive corbel vault .

 The tomb contained a single male skeleton , which lacked a skull and its thighbones .

 The dynastic founder of Tikal , Yax Ehb ' Xook , has been linked to this tomb , which lies deep in the heart of the North Acropolis .

 The deceased had probably died in battle with his body being mutilated by his enemies before being recovered and interred by his followers .

 The bones were wrapped carefully in textiles to form an upright bundle .

 The missing head was replaced by a small greenstone mask with shell @-@ inlaid teeth and eyes and bearing a three @-@ pointed royal headband .

 Burial 116 is the tomb of Jasaw Chan K 'awiil I .

 The tomb contained rich offerings of jadeite , ceramics , shell and works of art .

 The body of the king was covered with large quantities of jade ornaments including an enormous necklace with especially large beads , as depicted in sculpted portraits of the king .

 Burial 195 was flooded with mud in antiquity .

 This flood had covered wooden objects that had completely rotted away by the time the tomb was excavated , leaving hollows in the dried mud .

 Archaeologists filled these hollows with stucco and thus excavated four effigies of the god K 'awiil , the wooden originals long gone .

 = Tropical Storm Josephine ( 2008 ) =

 Josephine developed out of a strong tropical wave which moved off the African coast on August 31 .

 The wave quickly became organized and was declared Tropical Depression Ten while located 170 mi ( 270 km ) to the south @-@ southeast of the Cape Verde Islands on September 2 .

 Over the next several days , Josephine moved in a general west @-@ northwest direction and reached its peak intensity early on September 3 .

 Strong wind shear , some due to the outflow of Hurricane Ike , and dry air caused the storm to weaken .

 On September 6 , the combination of wind shear , dry air , and cooling waters caused Josephine to weaken into a tropical depression .

 Josephine deteriorated into a remnant low shortly after as convection continued to dissipate around the storm .

 The low ultimately dissipated while located 520 mi ( 835 km ) east of Guadeloupe on September 10 .

 However , the remnant moisture led to minor flooding on the island of St. Croix .

 = = Meteorological history = =

 Tropical Storm Josephine formed as a tropical wave that emerged off the west coast of Africa near the end of August 2008 .

 It tracked south of Cape Verde and slowly developed , and on September 2 the disturbance became Tropical Depression Ten while located south @-@ southeast of the Cape Verde islands .

 As the depression became more organized , an eye @-@ like feature developed in the upper levels of the system .

 The depression was upgraded to Tropical Storm Josephine six hours after forming .

 Josephine was located in an area which was supportive for rapid intensification but was not forecast to intensify quickly .

 Josephine continued to intensify throughout the afternoon as the storm became more symmetrical .

 Despite the lack of wind shear around the storm , the center became slightly exposed and ceased further intensification .

 The storm was also heading into an area where shear was forecasted to significantly increase due to an upper @-@ level trough diving southward .

 The intensification was forecast to be short in duration as the trough to the north was deepening , causing the wind shear to the west to become stronger .

 Josephine reached its peak intensity of 65 mph ( 100 km / h ) around 8 a.m. ( EDT ) as it continued to become more organized .

 However , there were indications that it had already begun to weaken .

 Outflow towards the north was becoming restricted and arc clouds began emanating from the storm , a sign that dry air was entering the system .

 During the afternoon hours , the structure of Josephine began to rapidly deteriorate as strong wind shear and dry air took their toll .

 Despite continuing effects from the strong wind shear , a large , deep burst of convection formed in the northern semicircle of Josephine .

 The center was found to have shifted towards the new convection leading to an increase in intensity .

 The forecast showed a slight decrease in wind shear as Josephine continued westward and no change in intensity over the 5 @-@ day forecast was predicted .

 However , the convection decreased once more and the low became completely exposed by the late morning hours and Josephine weakened again .

 During the overnight hours on September 4 into the morning of September 5 , convection associated with Josephine began to redevelop somewhat , mostly to the north of the circulation , due to the strong southerly wind shear .

 By mid @-@ morning , Josephine re @-@ intensified slightly due to the redevelopment of some convection .

 The convection around the system became dislocated from the center and Josephine weakened slightly .

 The weakening trend continued through the afternoon as the storm was being affected by strong southerly shear .

 Josephine became almost fully devoid of any convection by mid @-@ afternoon and the storm weakened to 40 mph ( 65 km / h ) , barely holding on to tropical storm status .

 Josephine regained a small amount of convection in the late night hours , but not enough to still be classified a tropical storm .

 No redevelopment was expected with Josephine as it began to move over colder waters and remain under strong wind shear until it dissipated .

 However , the remnant low associated with Josephine began to show signs of redevelopment during the afternoon on September 7 .

 Convection around the system increased significantly and the low was no longer exposed .

 Convection around the remnant low was torn away and the low was exposed once more .

 The National Hurricane Center did not state the chance of regeneration once the low became exposed .

 Once more , the chance of regeneration was possible as the remnants of Josephine headed towards the Bahamas .

 = = Impact = =

 As Josephine passed to the south of the Cape Verde islands on September 2 , outer rain bands produced minor rainfall , totaling around 0 @.@ 55 inches ( 14 mm ) .

 There were no reports of damage or flooding from the rain and overall effects were minor .

 The heavy rains led to minor street flooding and some urban flooding .

 No known damage was caused by the flood .

 = Mount Elbert =

 Mount Elbert is located in San Isabel National Forest , 12 @.@ 1 miles ( 19 @.@ 4 km ) southwest ( bearing 223 ° ) of the City of Leadville in Lake County , Colorado .

 The mountain was named in honor of Colorado statesman Samuel Hitt Elbert , who was active in the formative period of the state and Governor of the Territory of Colorado from 1873 to 1874 .

 Henry W. Stuckle of the Hayden Survey was the first to record an ascent of the peak , in 1874 .

 The easiest and most popular climbing routes are categorized as Class 1 to 2 or A + in mountaineering parlance .

 = = Geography = =

 Mount Elbert is visible to the southwest of Leadville , often snow @-@ capped even in the summer .

 Many other fourteeners surround Elbert in all directions , and it is very close to central Colorado 's Collegiate Peaks .

 Elbert 's parent peak is Mount Whitney in California .

 = = Geology = =

 Mount Elbert is part of the Sawatch Range , an uplift of the Laramide Orogeny which separated from the Mosquito Range to the east around 28 million years ago .

 The tops of this range were heavily glaciated , leaving behind characteristic summit features and other such clues .

 For example , the base of Elbert on the eastern side exhibits large igneous and metamorphic rocks deposited when the glaciers receded , which lie on a lateral moraine .

 Further up the eastern side there is a large cirque with a small tarn .

 There are also lakes to both the north and south , Turquoise and Twin Lakes respectively ; the Twin Lakes are a result of the natural dam of end moraines , and Turquoise Lake was created by the manmade Sugar Loaf Dam .

 Mount Elbert is composed largely of quartzite .

 There are various igneous intrusions including pegmatite , as well as " bands " of gneiss and schist .

 = = History = =

 The actual change was made in 1988 as a result of the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 ; it seems the original measurement resulted from the Sea Level Datum of 1929 .

 A matter of some contention arose after the Great Depression over the heights of Elbert and its neighbor , Mount Massive , which differ in elevation by only 12 feet ( 3 @.@ 7 m ) .

 This led to an ongoing dispute that came to a head with the Mount Massive supporters building large piles of stones on the summit to boost its height , only to have the Mount Elbert proponents demolish them .

 The effort was ultimately unsuccessful and Mount Elbert has remained the highest peak in Colorado .

 The first motorized ascent of Elbert occurred in 1949 , when a Jeep was driven to the summit , apparently to judge suitability for skiing development .

 = = Flora and fauna = =

 Also noted are Carex atrata var .

 hallii , and Bigelovia parryi .

 Some of the fauna reported on the climb to the summit include black bears , marmots , mule deer , pikas , and pocket gophers ; there are also many species of avifauna .

 Elk , grouse , turkey and bighorn sheep are present in the area during the summer .

 = = Climbing = =

 The standard route ascends the peak from the east , starting from the Colorado Trail just north of Twin Lakes .

 The 4 @.@ 6 miles ( 7 @.@ 4 km ) long North ( Main ) Elbert Trail begins close to the Elbert Creek Campground , and gains about 4 @ , @ 500 feet ( 1 @ , @ 400 m ) .

 The trail is open to equestrians , mountain bikers and hunters during season .

 The elevation gain is not evenly distributed over the 5 @.@ 5 @-@ mile ascent .

 There are also routes approaching from the western face , and southwestern ridge , from South Halfmoon Creek Trailhead and Echo Canyon Trailhead respectively .

 Although strenuous and requiring physical fitness , none of the conventional routes require specialist mountaineering skills or technical rock climbing .

 The main dangers of the mountain are those common to all high mountains , particularly altitude sickness .

 This can affect anyone , even those who are acclimatized .

 In serious cases , it can lead to high @-@ altitude pulmonary edema and cerebral edema , which can lead to difficulties with breathing , paralysis , and death .

 Climbers are advised to begin their ascent at or before 6 a.m. and to summit and descend before early afternoon to minimize exposure to possible afternoon thunderstorms while at high altitudes .

 Although the most conventional form of ascent is by hiking , Anna Elizabeth Dickinson , the orator , ascended the mountain on a mule borrowed from the U.S. government .

 = Scientology in Germany =

 The Church of Scientology has been present in Germany since 1970 .

 German authorities estimate that there are 4 @ , @ 000 active Scientologists in Germany today ; the Church of Scientology gives a membership figure of around 12 @ , @ 000 .

 The Church of Scientology has encountered particular antagonism from the German press and government and occupies a precarious legal , social and cultural position in Germany .

 The German domestic intelligence service has monitored the organization 's activities .

 The German government does not recognize Scientology as a religion .

 It views it as an abusive business masquerading as a religion and believes that it pursues political goals that conflict with the values enshrined in the German constitution .

 Scientologists in Germany face specific political and economic restrictions .

 They are barred from membership in some major political parties , and businesses and other employers use so @-@ called " sect filters " to expose a prospective business partner 's or employee 's association with the organization .

 German federal and state interior ministers started a process aimed at banning Scientology in late 2007 , but abandoned the initiative a year later , finding insufficient legal grounds .

 Despite this , polls suggest that most Germans favor banning Scientology altogether .

 = = Background = =

 Its stated utopian aim is to " clear the planet " , to bring about an enlightened age in which every individual has overcome their psychological limitations .

 Scientology teaches that the source of people 's unhappiness lies in " engrams " , psychological burdens acquired in the course of painful experiences , which can be cleared through a type of counselling called " auditing " made available by the Church of Scientology .

 Scientology has fought innumerable lawsuits to defend itself against such charges and to pursue legal recognition as a religion .

 Accordingly , the German government has taken a very strong stance against the organization .

 Scientology is similarly controversial in Belgium , Greece and the UK .

 In the same decision , the court also found that Scientology uses " inhuman and totalitarian practices " . Given the lessons of Germany 's 20th @-@ century history , in which the country came to be dominated by a fascist movement that started from similarly small beginnings , Germany is very wary of any ideological movement that might appear to be seeking a position of absolute power .

 = = History = =

 = = = Scientology presence in Germany = = =

 Scientology first became active in Germany in 1970 .

 By 2007 , there were ten major centres ( " Scientology Churches " ) , as well as fourteen minor centres ( " Scientology Missions " ) in Germany .

 The Church of Scientology reported around 30 @ ,@ 000 members from the mid @-@ 1990s onwards ; this number remained stable for many years .

 However more recently Scientology has said it has only 12 @ , @ 000 members .

 Discrepancies in Scientology membership numbers arise because the Church of Scientology applies more inclusive criteria in establishing its figures , essentially including anyone who has purchased a book or participated in courses , regardless of their subsequent involvement .

 The number of contractually bound Scientology staff members working in German Scientology organizations is unlikely to exceed a few hundred .

 The programme sought to address Scientology 's image problems in Germany , to identify weak points in Germany that could be exploited for political gain , such as Germany 's National Socialist history , and to increase both membership figures and political influence in German society , with a special emphasis on manoeuvring Scientologists into key positions in industry and government .

 According to Fifka & Sydora ( 2009 ) , it is unknown to what degree the " Clear Germany " programme is still being pursued .

 Public concerns about the potential dangers posed by cults date back to the early 1970s , when widespread debate took place about " youth religions " such as the Unification Church , ISKCON , Children of God , and the Divine Light Mission .

 Warnings from sect experts about the influence of new religious movements gained media attention which put political pressure on the government to deal with the situation ; as the movements were not doing anything illegal , the government resorted to issuing a range of leaflets and public statements giving general warnings about religious sects , the earliest of these publications appearing in 1979 .

 Perceptions that Scientology had a totalitarian character were reinforced when Robert Vaughn Young , an American ex @-@ Scientologist and former PR official in the Church of Scientology , visited German officials in late 1995 and wrote an article in Der Spiegel , a widely @-@ read weekly magazine , describing Scientology as a totalitarian system operating a gulag – the Rehabilitation Project Force – for members of Scientology 's Sea Org found guilty of transgressions .

 From the mid @-@ 1990s onward , press articles , reports and essays on Scientology appeared on an almost daily basis , accompanied by books and television programmes that reached a mass audience .

 As noted by the religious scholar Hubert Seiwert , Scientology came to be seen as a " serious political danger that not only threatened to turn individuals into will @-@ less zombies , but was also conspiring to overthrow the democratic constitution of the state " .

 Stephen A. Kent , writing in 1998 , noted that officials at all levels of German government shared the insistence that Scientology should be suppressed .

 " Officials examining primary and secondary sources , legal documents , and the testimony of former members , concluded that the organization was " antithetical to a democratic state " .

 Federal ministries and state governments were asked to use all legal means at their disposal to check the activities of Scientology .

 Government publications on the dangers of sects increased between 1996 and 1998 , and a significant number of them dealt with the Church of Scientology .

 The German courts had approved such publications in 1989 , seeing them as part of the government 's responsibility to keep the public informed , and finding that they did not interfere with religious freedom .

 Its final report , published in June 1998 , concluded that Scientology , alone among new religious movements , required monitoring by Germany 's domestic intelligence services .

 An expensive commercial version of Scientology 's Oxford Capacity Analysis , usually offered free as part of Scientology proselytizing in public places , temporarily entered some major German companies ( who were unaware of its provenance ) via such a management @-@ consultancy firm .

 In the mid @-@ 2000s , German sect experts expressed concerns that Scientologists were becoming active in the German after @-@ school tutoring market .

 Brochures advertising the tutoring services would at most mention the name of L. Ron Hubbard , the founder of Scientology , but not Scientology itself .

 " Gandow 's and Knopp 's comments found few critics in Germany .

 Most Germans consider Scientology a subversive organization .

 In 1997 , Time reported that 70 % of Germans favoured banning Scientology ; a poll conducted in September 2008 by Der Spiegel found 67 % support for a ban .

 Schön as well as Irving Hexham , Professor of Religious Studies at the University of Calgary in Canada , have remarked in particular on the lack of academic studies by German scholars .

 Hexham attributes this situation to the strong influence of the Christian churches in Germany , which has made German academics wary of approaching the subject , because they fear repercussions for their research funding and for their prospects of future employment if they involve themselves in the debate .

 In 2010 a German public broadcaster , ARD , showed the film Until Nothing Remains , a dramatized account of the effect Scientology had on one German family .

 Said to be based on a true story , the film attracted widespread media attention and a viewership of 8 @.@ 69 million .

 = = Legal status = =

 While there have been calls for Scientology to be banned , the Church of Scientology remains legal in Germany and is allowed to operate there .

 Its precise legal status however is unresolved .

 Status as a " religious or worldview community " also affects a broad range of other issues in Germany , such as taxation and freedom of association .

 The Upper Administrative Court in Hamburg explicitly asserted in 1994 that Scientology should be viewed as a worldview community .

 In 1995 , the Federal Labor Court of Germany decided that the Church of Scientology merely pursued commercial aims and did not represent a religious or worldview community entitled to protection under Article 4 of the German Constitution , although another decision by the same court left the question open again in 2003 .

 In another 2003 decision , the Administrative Court of Baden @-@ Württemberg in Mannheim said there were no indications that the teachings of Scientology merely served as a pretext for commercial activity .

 In 2005 , the Federal Administrative Court of Germany explicitly granted a Scientologist protection under Article 4 @.@ 1 of the German Constitution , which declares the freedom of religion and worldview inviolate .

 Many courts have declined to assess the religious status of Scientology , finding that the question was irrelevant to deciding the case at hand .

 = = Government surveillance = =

 Given the history of Nazism 's rise to power in Germany in the 1930s , the present German state has committed itself to taking active steps to prevent the rise of any ideology that threatens the values enshrined in the German constitution .

 Minister for Family Policy Claudia Nolte instituted the surveillance , saying that the church had totalitarian tendencies and that she would oppose Scientology with all the means at her disposal .

 The German Church of Scientology has repeatedly challenged the legality of this surveillance in court .

 In December 2001 , the Administrative Court in Berlin ruled against the Berlin Office for the Protection of the Constitution and ordered it to stop the recruitment and deployment of staff and members of the Church of Scientology Berlin as paid informants .

 The court ruled that the use of informants was disproportionate .

 In 2003 , the same court ruled that it was illegal for the Berlin Office for the Protection of the Constitution to include the activities of Scientology in its report , given that the report did not document any activities that were opposed to the constitution .

 At the federal level , Scientology lost a complaint against continued surveillance by the BfV in November 2004 .

 The federal court based its opinion on its judgment that the aims of Scientology , as outlined by L. Ron Hubbard in his writings , were incompatible with the German constitution .

 The court disagreed and ruled that many sources , some of them not accessible to the general public , indicated that the aims of the Church of Scientology did include the abrogation of the principle of equality and other essential human rights .

 There is at least one example of surveillance of Scientology by the German intelligence services outside of Germany .

 The German government posted bail for the agent .

 He was eventually given a 30 @-@ day suspended jail sentence for spying on Scientology , and the German government apologized to Switzerland for the incident .

 A " sect filter " , also known as a " protective declaration " ( Schutzerklärung ) , is a document that requires prospective business partners or employees to acknowledge any association with a sect or new religious movement before entering a business or employment contract .

 Sect commissioner 's " offices exist in Germany as part of regional or local government .

 A work instruction introduced in 1996 requires government staff in the Arbeitsämter – local employment agencies and social security offices operated by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs – to mark companies owned by Scientologists with the letter " S " . Where companies are suspected of having Scientologist staff , prospective employees are alerted to this fact by government staff .

 Government officials have publicised the names of individual Scientologists and conducted media campaigns against their businesses ; some businesspeople have placed advertisements in the press saying they are not Scientologists in order to avoid the associated stigma .

 Due to concerns about possible government infiltration by Scientologists , applicants for civil service positions in Bavaria are required to declare whether or not they are Scientologists , and a similar policy has been instituted in Hesse .

 To assuage these concerns , Microsoft Germany agreed to provide a means to disable the utility .

 Following letters of complaint about discrimination from Scientology lawyers , some American companies such as General Electric , IBM and Ford Motor Company instructed their German subsidiaries to cease the use of protective declarations .

 The city @-@ state of Hamburg set up a full @-@ time office dedicated to opposing Scientology , the Scientology Task Force for the Hamburg Interior Authority , under the leadership of Ursula Caberta .

 In June 2008 , the Hamburg Administrative Court fined the city of Hamburg 5 @ , @ 000 Euros ( $ 7 @ , @ 000 ) for not complying with court instructions banning the use of " sect filters .

 "

 Internet links to sample filters to be used by businesses had continued to remain available .

 "

 In 2010 , the Bavarian Administrative Court ruled that a woman working in a children 's daycare centre , whose employment had been terminated when her ex @-@ husband identified her as a Scientologist , should be reinstated .

 The woman had demonstrated to the court 's satisfaction that her Scientological beliefs were irrelevant to her work .

 According to the agreement that concluded the case , she promised not to use Scientology methods in her work , and to inform the children 's parents of her membership in Scientology .

 = = Initiative to ban Scientology = =

 In March 2007 , it was reported that German authorities were increasing their efforts to monitor Scientology in response to the opening of a new Scientology headquarters in Berlin .

 The move was criticized by German politicians from all sides of the political spectrum , with legal experts and intelligence agencies expressing concern that an attempt to ban the organization would likely fail in the courts .

 Sabine Weber , president of the Church of Scientology in Berlin , called the accusations " unrealistic " and " absurd " and said that the German interior ministers ' evaluation was based on " a few sentences out of 500 @ , @ 000 pages of Scientological literature " .

 She added , " I can also find hundreds of quotes in the Bible that are totalitarian but that doesn 't mean I will demand the ban of Christianity .

 "

 In November 2008 , the government abandoned its attempts to ban Scientology , after finding insufficient evidence of illegal or unconstitutional activity .

 The report by the BfV cited knowledge gaps and noted several points that would make the success of any legal undertaking to ban Scientology doubtful .

 The second argument on which those proposing the ban had counted was Scientology 's aggressive opposition to the constitution .

 Here , the report found that Scientology 's behaviour gave no grounds to assume that Scientology aggressively sought to attack and overthrow Germany 's free and democratic basic order .

 " Neither its bylaws nor any other utterances " supported the " conclusion that the organization had criminal aims " .

 The BfV also considered whether there were grounds to act against the Church of Scientology on the basis that they were practising medicine without a licence , but expressed doubts that a court would accept this reasoning .

 But they put very little of this into practice .

 In February 2009 , the Berlin Administrative Court ruled that a poster placed by local city authorities on an advertising column next to a bus stop in front of the Berlin Scientology headquarters , warning passers @-@ by of the potential dangers Scientology activities posed to democracy and individual freedom , should be removed .

 The decision was upheld in July 2009 by the Upper Administrative Court of Berlin @-@ Brandenburg which ruled that the poster violated Scientologists ' basic religious rights .

 = = Criticism of Germany 's stance = =

 The U.S. Department of State has repeatedly claimed that Germany 's actions constitute government and societal discrimination against minority religious groups and expressed its concerns over the violation of Scientologists ' individual rights posed by sect filters .

 The U.S. Department of State began to include the issue of Scientology in Germany in its annual human rights reports after the 1993 agreement between the Church of Scientology and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service , through which Scientology gained the status of a tax @-@ exempt religion in the United States .

 That decision also marked the beginning of more intense lobbying efforts by the Church of Scientology in Washington , using paid lobbyists .

 Past targets of such actions had included Scientologist actors Tom Cruise and John Travolta , as well as jazz pianist Chick Corea .

 U.S. Department of State spokesman Nicholas Burns rejected the Nazi comparisons in the open letter as " outrageous " and distanced the U.S. government from Nazi comparisons made by the Church of Scientology , saying , " We have criticized the Germans on this , but we aren 't going to support the Scientologists ' terror tactics against the German government .

 Kohl 's Christian Democratic Union party denounced the letter as " absurd " and cited German court rulings stating that Scientology had primarily economic goals and could legitimately be referred to using phrases such as a " contemptuous cartel of oppression " .

 In February 1997 , a United States immigration court judge granted asylum to a German Scientologist who claimed she would be subject to religious persecution in her homeland .

 The German ambassador responded with a letter to the CSCE stating that the German government had come to the conclusion that Scientology 's " pseudo @-@ scientific courses can seriously jeopardize individuals ' mental and physical health and that it exploits its members " , adding that " membership can lead to psychological and physical dependency , to financial ruin , and even to suicide .

 In addition , there are indications that Scientology poses a threat to Germany 's basic political principles .

 "

 A United Nations report in April 1998 raised concerns about the violation of individual rights posed by sect filters .

 However , it rejected the comparison of the treatment of Scientologists with that of Jews during the Nazi era .

 In 2000 , the German Stern magazine published the results of its investigation of the asylum case .

 The U.S. Department of State 's 2012 report on religious freedom in Germany , published in 2013 , stated that " The status of the Church of Scientology remains in limbo .

 The Constitutional Court and various courts at the state level have not explicitly ruled that Scientology is a religion .

 Government agencies at the federal and state level have rules and procedures that discriminate against Scientology as a group and against its members .

 Scientologists reported instances of governmental discrimination .

 Although courts at the state and federal level condemned the improper use of so @-@ called ' sect filters ' to blacklist and boycott Scientologists , they remained in use in the public sector .

 '

 Catholic and Protestant churches continued to oppose Scientology publically [ sic ] , although press reporting and public reactions to Scientology decreased .

 Several private organizations issued warnings about after @-@ school study programs run by Scientologists .

 "

 = = = Scholarly sources = = =

 = = = Journalistic sources = = =

 = = = Government and court documents = = =

 = = = Scientology sources = = =

 = = = Scientology sites = = =

 Scientology.de ( German )

 Menschenrechtsbuero.de – Human Rights website of the German Church of Scientology ( German )

 = = = German government sites = = =

 Scientology : Publications of German regional governments – Website of the German Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution ( German )

 Website of the Hamburg Scientology Task Force ( German )

 = Japanese battleship Asahi =

 As Japan lacked the industrial capacity to build such warships itself , the ship was designed and built in the United Kingdom .

 Shortly after her arrival in Japan , she became flagship of the Standing Fleet , the IJN 's primary combat fleet .

 She participated in every major naval battle of the Russo @-@ Japanese War of 1904 – 05 and was lightly damaged during the Battle of the Yellow Sea and the Battle of Tsushima .

 Reclassified as a coastal defence ship in 1921 , Asahi was disarmed two years later to meet the terms of the Washington Naval Treaty , after which she served as a training and submarine depot ship .

 She was modified into a submarine salvage and rescue ship before being placed in reserve in 1928 .

 Asahi was recommissioned in late 1937 , after the start of the Second Sino @-@ Japanese War , and used to transport Japanese troops .

 In 1938 , she was converted into a repair ship and based first at Japanese @-@ occupied Shanghai , China , and then Cam Ranh Bay , French Indochina , from late 1938 to 1941 .

 The ship was transferred to occupied Singapore in early 1942 to repair a damaged light cruiser and ordered to return home in May .

 She was sunk en route by the American submarine USS Salmon , although most of her crew survived .

 = = Background = =

 Therefore , Japan promulgated a ten @-@ year naval build @-@ up in early 1896 , to modernize and expand its fleet in preparation for further confrontations , with the construction of six battleships and six armoured cruisers at its core .

 These ships were paid for from the £ 30 @ , @ 000 @ ,@ 000 indemnity paid by China after losing the First Sino @-@ Japanese War .

 As with the earlier Fuji and Shikishima classes , Japan lacked the technology and capability to construct its own battleships , and turned again to the United Kingdom for the four remaining battleships of the programme .

 Asahi , the fifth Japanese battleship to be built in Britain , was ordered from the Clydebank Engineering & Shipbuilding Company shipyard in Clydebank , Scotland in the 1897 annual naval programme .

 = = Design and description = =

 The ship had an overall length of 425 feet 3 inches ( 129 @.@ 6 m ) , a beam of 75 feet ( 22 @.@ 9 m ) , and a normal draught of 27 feet 3 inches ( 8 @.@ 3 m ) .

 She displaced 15 @ , @ 200 long tons ( 15 @ , @ 400 t ) at normal load .

 Asahi had a complete double bottom with 55 watertight compartments .

 Her hull was also subdivided into 223 watertight compartments .

 She was fitted as a flagship and her crew numbered about 773 officers and enlisted men , including the admiral 's staff .

 The engines were rated at 15 @ , @ 000 indicated horsepower ( 11 @ , @ 000 kW ) , using forced draught , and designed to reach a top speed of 18 knots ( 33 km / h ; 21 mph ) although Asahi reached 18 @.@ 3 knots ( 33 @.@ 9 km / h ; 21 @.@ 1 mph ) from 16 @ , @ 335 indicated horsepower ( 12 @ , @ 181 kW ) during her sea trials on 23 March 1900 .

 They were mounted in twin @-@ gun turrets fore and aft of the superstructure .

 The hydraulically powered mountings allowed the guns to be loaded at all angles of traverse , at a fixed elevation of + 13 @.@ 5 ° . Each mount could traverse a total of 240 degrees .

 They fired 850 @-@ pound ( 386 kg ) projectiles at a muzzle velocity of 2 @ , @ 400 ft / s ( 730 m / s ) .

 The ship 's secondary armament consisted of fourteen 45 @-@ calibre 6 @-@ inch ( 152 mm ) quick @-@ firing ( QF ) guns mounted in casemates .

 Eight of these guns were positioned on the main deck and the other six guns were placed above them in the superstructure .

 They fired 100 @-@ pound ( 45 kg ) shells at a muzzle velocity of 2 @ , @ 300 ft / s ( 700 m / s ) .

 The 12 @-@ pounders fired 3 @-@ inch ( 76 mm ) , 12 @.@ 5 @-@ pound ( 5 @.@ 7 kg ) projectiles at a muzzle velocity of 2 @ , @ 359 ft / s ( 719 m / s ) .

 The former were mounted in the superstructure and the latter in the fighting tops .

 The three @-@ pounder gun fired 3 @.@ 19 @-@ pound ( 1 @.@ 45 kg ) projectiles at a muzzle velocity of 1 @ , @ 927 ft / s ( 587 m / s ) , while the 2 @.@ 5 @-@ pounder fired 2 @.@ 5 @-@ pound ( 1 @.@ 1 kg ) shells at a muzzle velocity of 1 @ , @ 420 ft / s ( 430 m / s ) .

 It was only 4 inches ( 102 mm ) thick at the ends of the ship and was surmounted by a six @-@ inch strake of armour that ran between the barbettes .

 Diagonal bulkheads connecting the barbettes to the side armour were 12 – 14 inches thick , but only 6 inches thick at the lower deck level .

 The frontal armour of the casemates protecting the secondary armament was also 6 inches thick with the rear protected by 2 @-@ inch ( 51 mm ) armour plates .

 The conning tower was protected by 14 inches of armour .

 The ships were also fitted with 24 @-@ power magnification telescopic gunsights .

 = = Construction and career = =

 She was launched on 13 March 1899 and completed on 31 July 1900 .

 Her completion was delayed by about three months when her bottom plating required repairs after running aground off Southsea following sea trials .

 The ship departed England , after repairs in Portsmouth , on the day of her completion , and arrived at Yokosuka , Japan , on 23 October 1900 .

 Asahi became flagship of the Standing Fleet on 22 May 1901 and was assigned to the 1st Battleship Division of the 1st Fleet when the Combined Fleet was re @-@ formed on 28 December 1903 .

 The Japanese ships were spotted by the protected cruiser Boyarin , which was patrolling offshore and alerted the Russian defences .

 Tōgō chose to attack the Russian coastal defences with his main armament and engage the ships with his secondary guns .

 Although many ships on both sides were hit , Russian casualties numbered only 17 , while the Japanese suffered 60 killed and wounded before Tōgō disengaged .

 Asahi was not hit during the engagement .

 The ship participated in the action of 13 April , when Tōgō successfully lured out a portion of the Pacific Squadron , including Vice Admiral Stepan Makarov 's flagship , the battleship Petropavlovsk .

 When Makarov spotted the five battleships of the 1st Division , he turned back for Port Arthur and Petropavlovsk struck a minefield laid by the Japanese the previous night .

 The Russian battleship sank in less than two minutes after one of her magazines exploded , and Makarov was one of the 677 killed .

 Emboldened by his success , Tōgō resumed long @-@ range bombardment missions , prompting the Russians to lay more minefields , which sank two Japanese battleships the following month .

 She was only hit by a single 12 @-@ inch shell that wounded two crewmen .

 Both guns in her aft 12 @-@ inch gun turret , however , were disabled by shells that detonated prematurely in their barrels .

 In turn she concentrated most of her fire upon the battleships Poltava and Tsesarevich although both ships were only lightly damaged by the Japanese shells , which generally failed to penetrate any armour and detonated on impact .

 The ship made the critical hits of the battle , however , when two of her 12 @-@ inch shells struck the bridge of Tsesarevich , killing the Russian squadron commander , Vice Admiral Wilgelm Vitgeft , two of his staff officers and the ship 's quartermaster .

 The ship 's wheel was jammed to port by wreckage and then slowed to a halt which threw the rest of the Russian ships into total confusion .

 The second @-@ in @-@ command , Rear Admiral Prince Pavel Ukhtomsky , eventually gained control of the remainder of the squadron and headed back to Port Arthur .

 Severely damaged , she was under repair at Sasebo Naval Arsenal from November 1904 to April 1905 .

 Mikasa opened fire at the battleship Knyaz Suvorov , the Russian flagship , at 14 : 10 , and was joined by Asahi and the armoured cruiser Azuma shortly afterwards .

 Tōgō was able to cross the T of the Russian squadrons .

 Asahi fired more twelve @-@ inch shells , 142 , than any other ship during the battle .

 While Asahi 's casualties are not precisely known , the Japanese only lost 110 men killed and 590 wounded to all causes during the battle .

 Captain W. C. Pakenham , the Royal Navy 's official military observer under the Anglo @-@ Japanese Alliance , took notes of the battle 's progress from a deck chair on Asahi 's exposed quarterdeck .

 His report confirmed the superiority of Japanese training and tactics and publicized the victory in the West .

 = = = Later career = = =

 In 1908 , Asahi was part of the Japanese fleet that escorted the American Great White Fleet through Japanese waters during its round @-@ the @-@ globe voyage .

 The ship was assigned to the 1st Fleet in 1908 and 1910 – 11 .

 Asahi became a gunnery training ship in 1914 , and was re @-@ armed in 1917 with Japanese guns replacing her original British @-@ made guns .

 The same year , she was assigned to the 5th Division of the 3rd Fleet .

 In 1918 , Asahi became flagship of her division and participated in the Japanese intervention in the Russian Civil War .

 She escorted troop convoys to the Russian Far East and was guard ship at Kamchatka from January to August 1918 .

 She was reclassified as a training and submarine depot ship on 1 April 1923 and her disarmament was completed in July of that same year .

 The navy decided to convert Asahi into a submarine salvage ship and she began the first stage of her conversion with the installation of specialized salvage equipment from February to August 1925 .

 From 1926 to October 1927 , the ship 's 25 Belleville boilers were replaced with four Kanpon Type RO boilers at Kure Naval Arsenal .

 One of her two funnels was also removed , and two large lifting frames were installed as part of the second stage of her conversion .

 After repeated accidents , the catapult was replaced by one powered by gunpowder .

 On the completion of testing in 1928 , Asahi was placed in reserve .

 Asahi was fitted with a dummy wooden main battery fore and aft to resemble an old battleship after her arrival in Shanghai on 29 December .

 In May 1939 she was modified to act as a torpedo depot ship and carried out patrols between 29 May and 7 November 1940 .

 From 13 March 1942 , Asahi was stationed at Singapore , and in April her crew performed repairs on the light cruiser Naka , which had been torpedoed by the submarine USS Seawolf off Christmas Island .

 Departing Singapore for Kure on 22 May , escorted by the subchaser CH @-@ 9 , Asahi was sighted by the submarine USS Salmon on the night of 25 / 26 May 1942 , 100 miles ( 160 km ) southeast of Cape Padaran , Indochina .

 Of Salmon 's four torpedoes , two hit the ship in her port central boiler room and aft spaces .

 At 01 : 03 , moments after being hit , Asahi sank at 10 ° 00 ′ N 110 ° 00 ′ E. Sixteen men were killed in the attack ; the ship 's captain and 582 crewmen were rescued by CH @-@ 9 .

 = Training Day ( The Office ) =

 It originally aired on NBC on April 14 , 2011 .

 The episode was written by Daniel Chun and directed by Paul Lieberstein .

 This episode marks the first appearance of Deangelo Vickers ( Will Ferrell ) in the series .

 The series depicts the everyday lives of office employees in the Scranton , Pennsylvania branch of the fictional Dunder Mifflin Paper Company .

 The new manager , Deangelo Vickers ( Will Ferrell ) , has everyone hoping to make good first impressions :

 Andy Bernard ( Ed Helms ) finds himself awkwardly typecast while Jim Halpert ( John Krasinski ) and Pam Halpert ( Jenna Fischer ) worry that they 've come on too strong .

 Only Dwight Schrute ( Rainn Wilson ) is apathetic about the new leader .

 " Training Day " received mixed reviews from television critics , with many commenting on Ferrell 's appearance .

 The episode ultimately ranked as the highest @-@ rated NBC series of the night .

 = = Synopsis = =

 Michael is waiting in a hotel bar for his replacement Deangelo Vickers ( Will Ferrell ) to show up .

 While waiting , he meets a man at the bar and the two instantly hit it off .

 Deangelo comes to the branch the next day , and most of the staff is eager to make a good first impression .

 Kevin wears his toupee , Jim and Pam believe they have started off well by mentioning their baby , and Deangelo designates Andy as the office " funny guy " when he reveals that he carries name tags around to avoid situations like the one Deangelo and Michael were in .

 Michael becomes disturbed , however , when Deangelo wants to make some changes , such as how Erin answers the phone .

 While Deangelo gets annoyed with Jim and Pam , he loves the antics of Andy , who has resorted to physical comedy when his jokes fall flat , getting to the point where he pours hot coffee on his pants and ( at Deangelo 's urging ) eats soap ;

 Deangelo 's popularity with the employees causes Michael to get jealous to the point where he passes out peanut butter sandwiches , despite Deangelo 's peanut allergy .

 Jim quietly tells Michael that he chose to resign his job and needs to come to terms with both that choice and the fact that life is going to go on at the office .

 Deangelo then steps out of his meeting and asks Michael for advice for how to run the meeting , saying that he 's a good manager and Dunder Mifflin won 't be the same without him .

 The two make up with a reverse hug , Deangelo telling him that he should start enjoying his retirement .

 Michael returns to his office while Deangelo conducts his meeting in the conference room .

 In another effort to impress Deangelo , Jim and Pam bring in Cece , to which Deangelo reacts positively .

 While they celebrate getting back on his good side , Deangelo reveals to the camera that he is in fact indifferent to Cece and was just being polite .

 = = Production = =

 The episode was written by co @-@ executive producer Daniel Chun , his fourth writing credit of the series .

 The episode marked the first appearance of Will Ferrell 's four @-@ episode arc on the series and is also one of series star , Carell 's last episodes as a regular on the series .

 Ferrell signed on to appear in Steve Carell 's final three episodes , and the first episode without Carell , " The Inner Circle " , to make Carell 's transition easier .

 Carell had decided to leave the series , because " I just think it 's time ...

 I want to fulfill my contract .

 When I first signed on I had a contract for seven seasons , and this coming year is my seventh .

 I just thought it was time for my character to go " .

 He had previously starred alongside Carell , in the 2004 film , Anchorman : The Legend of Ron Burgundy .

 The Season Seven DVD contains a number of deleted scenes from this episode .

 = = Reception = =

 = = = Ratings = = =

 In its original American broadcast , " Training Day " was viewed by an estimated 7 @.@ 871 million viewers and received a 4 @.@ 0 rating / 11 % share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49 .

 This marked a rise in the ratings from the previous episode , " Garage Sale " , which can be attributed to Ferrell 's guest appearance .

 The episode ranked first in its timeslot , beating the Fox crime drama Bones , which scored a 3 @.@ 5 / 10 percent relating in the 18 @-@ 49 demographic ; a rerun of the ABC medical drama Grey 's Anatomy and a rerun of the CBS crime drama CSI : Crime Scene Investigation .

 = = = Reviews = = =

 " Training Day " received mixed reviews from television critics .

 IGN writer Cindy White wrote that Deangelo was not given a proper introduction and that he wasn 't distinguished from Michael 's character .

 She also went on to criticize Jim , Pam and Dwight 's reaction to Deangelo as the new manager , particular that of Jim and Pam , writing that " it 's becoming painfully obvious that the longtime writers don 't know what to do with them anymore " .

 However , she concluded that the episode continued the seventh season 's improvement over the sixth , and that it showed potential for future episodes of the season .

 She ultimately gave it an 8 @.@ 7 out of 10 .

 Will Ferrell 's performance was especially noted by critics .

 McNutt complimented Ferrell 's " nuanced " performance , but called his character " uninteresting " .

 Stiernberg praised his dynamic with Carell , comparing it to their previous roles in Anchorman .

 His later appearances in the series also received similar mixed reviews For instance , McNutt called Ferrell 's scenes a " momentum killer " in " Goodbye , Michael " , whereas Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone called his performance in the same episode " pure magic " .

 = J. C. W. Beckham =

 Goebel lost the election to Republican William S. Taylor , but the Kentucky General Assembly disputed the election results .

 During the political wrangling that followed , an unknown assassin shot Goebel .

 A day later the General Assembly invalidated enough votes to give the election to Goebel , who was sworn into office on his deathbed .

 Taylor claimed the election had been stolen by the Democratic majority in the General Assembly and a legal fight ensued between him and Beckham over the governorship .

 Beckham ultimately prevailed and Taylor fled the state .

 Following his term as governor , Beckham made a bid to become a U.S. Senator .

 His stance in favor of prohibition cost him the votes of four legislators in his own party and the seat went to Republican William O. Bradley .

 Six years later Beckham secured the seat by popular election , but he lost his re @-@ election bid largely because of his pro @-@ temperance views and his opposition to women 's suffrage .

 He died in Louisville on January 9 , 1940 .

 = = Early life = =

 J. C. W. Beckham was born at Wickland , near Bardstown in Nelson County , Kentucky , son of William Netherton and Julia Tevis ( Wickliffe ) Beckham .

 His uncle , Robert C. Wickliffe , served as governor of Louisiana .

 Beckham obtained his early education at Roseland Academy in Bardstown .

 In 1881 he served as a page in the Kentucky House of Representatives at the age of 12 .

 Later , he enrolled at Central University ( now Eastern Kentucky University ) in Richmond , Kentucky but was forced to quit school at the age of 17 to support his widowed mother .

 Two years later , he became principal of Bardstown public schools , serving from 1888 to 1893 .

 Concurrently , he studied law at the University of Kentucky , where he earned his law degree in 1889 .

 He was admitted to the bar , and commenced practice in Bardstown in 1893 .

 He also served as president of the Young Democrats ' Club of Nelson County .

 = = Political career = =

 Beckham 's political career began in 1894 when he was elected without opposition to the Kentucky House of Representatives .

 He served four consecutive terms and was Speaker of the House in 1898 , his final year in the House .

 He also served as a delegate to every Democratic National Convention from 1900 to 1920 .

 = = = Governor of Kentucky = = =

 Democrat William Goebel chose Beckham as his running mate in the Kentucky gubernatorial election of 1899 .

 Goebel lost a close election to Republican William S. Taylor .

 When the General Assembly 's session opened on January 2 , 1900 , the election results were immediately challenged .

 With Democrats in control of both houses of the Assembly , the results seemed sure to be reversed .

 The Assembly was still deliberating on January 30 , 1900 , when Goebel was shot by an unknown assailant as he entered the state capitol building .

 He was sworn into office from his bed the same day .

 Three days later Goebel died , never having risen from the bed .

 Legislative chaos ensued as Taylor refused to acknowledge the Assembly 's decision and vacate the governorship .

 The Republicans in the legislature obeyed Taylor 's orders , while the Democrats ignored Taylor and followed the orders of their leadership .

 The case first went before the Louisville Circuit Court , which found in favor of Beckham .

 Republicans appealed to the Kentucky Court of Appeals , at that time the court of last resort in the state .

 On April 6 , 1900 , the Court of Appeals upheld the ruling of the lower court .

 Taylor appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States , which declined to hear the case on May 21 , 1900 .

 Taylor 's only supporter on the court was Kentuckian John Marshall Harlan .

 Following the Supreme Court ruling , Taylor fled to Indianapolis , Indiana , fearing he would be implicated in Goebel 's assassination .

 Beckham ( now of age ) won the election over Republican John W. Yerkes by fewer than 4 @ , @ 000 votes .

 Shortly following the special election , Beckham married Jean Raphael Fuqua of Owensboro .

 The couple had two sons .

 As governor Beckham sought to unite his party and the state .

 He stressed non @-@ controversial issues such as improvements to roads and the state 's educational system .

 He recommended passage of a law to set uniform school textbook prices , a reform both he and Goebel had advocated during the gubernatorial campaign .

 However , his passive leadership ensured that the General Assembly did little to address his agenda .

 The only major pieces of legislation passed during Beckham 's term were a tax increase that added a half million dollars to the state 's revenue and a child labor law that forbade children under 14 to work without their parents ' consent .

 Although the Kentucky Constitution prohibited governors from serving consecutive terms , Beckham announced he would seek a full term as governor in 1903 .

 His candidacy was challenged in court , but the court ruled Beckham had not served a full first term and was eligible to run .

 Due to his record of reconciliation and supporting non @-@ controversial reforms , he had no significant opposition in winning his party 's nomination .

 His record also deprived his Republican opponent , Morris B. Belknap , of any significant campaign issue in the general election .

 Beckham defeated Belknap and three minor candidates .

 The law was one of few significant reforms that passed during the 1904 session .

 During the session funds were approved for building a new capitol building and a memorial to the late Governor Goebel .

 In March 1904 , Beckham signed the Day Law mandating racial segregation of all schools in Kentucky .

 Berea College , a private college in eastern Kentucky that had been integrated since the 1850s , immediately filed suit to challenge the law .

 The substance of the law was upheld in the circuit court and the Kentucky Court of Appeals .

 Berea appealed to the Supreme Court , and in 1908 the court handed down an 8 – 1 decision against the college .

 Only John Marshall Harlan dissented .

 Near the close of the 1904 session , legislators approved the creation of Beckham County from parts of Carter , Elliott , and Lewis counties .

 Olive Hill was made the county seat .

 Soon the county 's existence was challenged in court on grounds that it fell short of the 400 square miles ( 1 @ , @ 000 km2 ) required by the state constitution and that it reduced the counties it was carved from to less than 400 square miles ( 1 @ , @ 000 km2 ) .

 Carter County joined the lawsuit , claiming the border of Beckham County passed too close to Grayson , the seat of Carter County , and Vanceburg , the seat of Lewis County .

 The state constitution forbade county borders to pass within 10 miles ( 16 km ) of a county seat .

 On April 29 , 1904 , the Kentucky Court of Appeals found in favor of the plaintiffs and dissolved Beckham County .

 During the 1906 legislative session , Beckham urged investigation and prosecution of corrupt insurance companies , following the lead of New York attorney Charles Evans Hughes .

 In particular , he recommended reducing the practice of deferred dividends , which allowed the insurance companies to keep large stores of cash on @-@ hand for illegal purposes .

 He further advocated that insurance companies doing business in the state be required to invest a certain percentage of their earnings in Kentucky , bolstering the its economy and providing policyholders some protection against fraud .

 Beckham refused to send troops into the western part of the state to quell the ongoing Black Patch Tobacco Wars .

 He cited constitutional reasons for his refusal , but more probably his reasons were political – the Democrats were dominant in this region and he didn 't want to challenge his own party .

 By collecting some old Civil War debts from the federal government , Beckham virtually eliminated the state 's debt .

 Encouraged by the state 's improved finances , the General Assembly voted to expand two of the state 's normal schools , Western State Teachers College in Bowling Green ( later Western Kentucky University ) and Eastern State Teachers College in Richmond ( later part of Eastern Kentucky University ) .

 With a successful legislative session behind him , Beckham made a bold political move in June 1906 : he orchestrated an effort to set the Democratic gubernatorial and senatorial primaries in November – a full year before the gubernatorial election and two years before the senatorial election .

 Beckham wanted the Senate seat , and moving the primary up two years would allow him to secure his party 's nomination while he was still governor .

 It also allowed him to use his influence as governor to sway the party 's choice of his potential successor as governor .

 State Auditor Samuel Wilbur Hager was Beckham 's choice for governor and easily won the early primary over challenger N.B. Hays .

 Former governor James B. McCreary challenged Beckham for the senatorial nomination , but Beckham won by more than 11 @ , @ 000 votes .

 = = = U.S. Senator = = =

 Beckham 's term as governor ended December 10 , 1907 .

 In January 1908 he faced the legislature as the Democratic nominee for a seat in the U.S. Senate by virtue of the primary held two years earlier .

 The Republicans nominated former governor William O. Bradley .

 On the first ballot Beckham secured 66 of the needed 69 votes ; Bradley received 64 votes .

 Seven Democrats had not voted for Beckham .

 Some Democrats pressured Beckham to withdraw and allow a more palatable Democrat to run , but he refused .

 On the 29th ballot , taken near the end of February 1908 , Bradley finally secured a majority after four Democrats crossed party lines to vote for him .

 Beckham 's ardent support of prohibition likely cost him the election .

 His position put him at odds with Henry Watterson , editor of the powerful Louisville Courier @-@ Journal .

 As governor Beckham had crossed the liquor interests and the political machinery in Louisville .

 When the Kentucky Court of Appeals invalidated the results of Louisville 's municipal elections due to interference by the city 's " whiskey ring " in May 1907 , Beckham appointed Robert Worth Bingham , a young lawyer and fellow prohibitionist , as interim mayor until elections could be held in November .

 Bingham eliminated grafting in the police department , closed gambling houses and enforced blue laws closing saloons on Sunday .

 Following this , the whiskey ring announced Beckham had forfeited the support of Louisville 's legislators .

 In the senatorial election in 1908 , three of the four Democrats who voted against Beckham were from Louisville .

 Following his defeat , Beckham returned to his law practice .

 Six years later Beckham again attempted to win the Senate seat .

 In the Democratic primary Beckham defeated Augustus O. Stanley , a 12 @-@ year veteran congressman .

 Bolstered by his support of President Woodrow Wilson , Beckham won the election by 32 @ , @ 000 votes .

 In the latter position he was influential in securing two large military training posts for Kentucky , Camp Zachary Taylor and Fort Knox .

 True to his prohibitionist stance , Beckham supported passage of the Eighteenth Amendment forbidding the import and sale of alcohol in the United States .

 The amendment was ratified and became effective in January 1920 .

 Believing women should be protected from involvement in politics , Beckham opposed the Nineteenth Amendment , which granted women 's suffrage .

 The amendment failed on February 10 , 1919 , but passed on June 4 , 1919 .

 Beckham voted against it both times .

 The Democrats renominated Beckham without opposition in 1920 .

 His opponent in the general election was Republican Richard P. Ernst .

 Prohibition had destroyed the distilling industry and the saloon business in the state , and in areas where these industries were prominent Beckham received more than 5 @ , @ 000 fewer votes than Democratic presidential nominee James M. Cox .

 He was also hurt by the women 's vote and by his support of President Wilson , who had lost popularity since Beckham 's election in 1914 .

 Ernst won the election by fewer than 5 @ , @ 000 votes , winning the race with 50 @.@ 3 percent of the vote to Beckham 's 49 @.@ 7 percent .

 = = Later life and death = =

 Following his term in the Senate , Beckham resumed his legal practice in Louisville .

 He sought another term as governor in 1927 .

 He was opposed by a powerful political machine known as the Jockey Club , whose main interest was securing legislation to allow parimutuel betting at the state 's horse racetracks .

 The Jockey Club ran a candidate in both parties ' primary elections .

 In the Democratic primary Beckham defeated the Club 's relatively obscure candidate , Robert T. Crowe .

 Flem D. Sampson , the Club 's nominee in the Republican primary , won his party 's nomination .

 It was estimated that the Club spent over $ 500 @ ,@ 000 to defeat him .

 Beckham was expected to be the Democrats ' nominee for governor in 1935 , but the death of his son in late 1934 left him distraught and his wife opposed to another campaign .

 The Democrats turned to A. B. " Happy " Chandler of Henderson , who won the election .

 Beckham also served on the Department of Business Regulations Commission and chaired the State Government Reorganization Commission .

 Beckham attempted to return to the Senate in 1936 .

 The head of the Jockey Club , James B. Brown , had lost his fortune and influence when his banking empire crashed in 1930 .

 Beckham also enjoyed the support of the United Mine Workers and Louisville mayor Neville Miller .

 He had agreed to support Chandler 's bid for the governorship in exchange for Chandler 's support in his run for the Senate .

 Democratic incumbent M. M. Logan retained the seat by 2 @ , @ 385 votes .

 Beckham died in Louisville on January 9 , 1940 , and was buried in Frankfort Cemetery in Frankfort , Kentucky .

 Beckham County , Oklahoma , was named in his honor at the suggestion of a Kentuckian who was serving as a delegate to Oklahoma 's constitutional convention in 1907 .

 Wickland , his birthplace , was added to the National Register of Historic Places on February 16 , 1973 .

 The 1888 – 89 New Zealand Native football team was a New Zealand rugby union team that toured Britain , Ireland , Australia and New Zealand in 1888 and 1889 .

 It mostly comprised players of Māori ancestry , and also included some Pākeh ā ( white New Zealanders ) .

 Having made a significant impact on the development of New Zealand rugby , the Natives were inducted into the International Rugby Board Hall of Fame in 2008 .

 After a preliminary tour of New Zealand in 1888 , the side travelled to England via Melbourne and Suez .

 Playing their first match , on 3 October against Surrey , the team was subjected to a taxing match schedule , and frequently played three matches per week .

 Their early matches included a 9 – 0 loss to Middlesex , but their form improved in November , when they won 10 of their 13 matches .

 The team played its first international match on 1 December , against Ireland , and won 13 – 4 .

 In a return match on 19 January , Yorkshire fielded a stronger side than in the first match and inflicted one of the Natives ' heaviest losses , a 16 – 4 defeat .

 The Natives apologised afterwards for their behaviour , but the damage was not repaired .

 The New Zealanders left England without an official send @-@ off , and travelled to Australia where they toured Victoria , New South Wales and Queensland .

 They then returned to New Zealand , where they displayed a level of combination not seen in their home country before .

 They went 31 games undefeated before losing their final match , on 24 August 1889 , 7 – 2 to Auckland .

 The Natives ' final record in rugby matches was 78 wins , 6 draws and 23 losses .

 They introduced a number of tactical innovations to New Zealand rugby on their return home , and their tour contributed to the formation of the New Zealand Rugby Football Union in 1892 .

 Seventeen of the team 's 26 players went on to play provincially in New Zealand , and two , Thomas Ellison and David Gage , subsequently captained the New Zealand national rugby team .

 = = Background = =

 The idea for assembling a team of Māori footballers to tour Britain was conceived by Joseph Warbrick , a rugby player who had toured with the first New Zealand national team in 1884 .

 He initially proposed a team of Māori or part @-@ Māori to play the touring British side in 1888 ; this developed into a venture to have a Māori team tour Britain if a preliminary tour of New Zealand were successful .

 Hearing of Warbrick 's plans , civil servant Thomas Eyton contacted him to offer help managing the tour , which Warbrick accepted .

 Warbrick started assembling a team for the tour in early 1888 .

 He had difficulties assembling a squad due to player availability , and failed to secure the talented Jack Taiaroa due to his university commitments .

 Some Māori players who initially agreed to play later pulled out when the eligibility criteria were relaxed to allow squad members who were only part @-@ Māori .

 Twenty Māori or part @-@ Māori players joined the squad ; five Pākeh ā ( white New Zealand ) players were added after the team lost to Auckland .

 Due to the inclusion of these Pākeh ā players the team was renamed from the " New Zealand Maori " to the " New Zealand Native Football Representatives " .

 The final squad comprised 26 players ( including Warbrick ) ; of these at least five were full @-@ blooded Māori , while fourteen had a Māori mother and a Pākeh ā father .

 The parentage of some of the players is unknown .

 The first game was contested against Hawke 's Bay in Napier on 23 June 1888 .

 They played nine games in their preliminary tour of New Zealand , and won seven of them .

 Their last New Zealand match before departure , against Otago played in Dunedin on 31 July 1888 , was won by one try to nil .

 The team sailed for Australia from Dunedin , leaving on 1 August 1888 .

 In Melbourne , Scott recruited Jack Lawlor to train the players in Victorian Rules football in Britain as preparation for possible Victorian Rules matches on their return to Australia .

 The team played two rugby matches against the Melbourne Rugby Union team , winning the first and drawing the second , before continuing to Britain via Suez .

 They arrived in London on 27 September 1888 .

 = = Arrival in England and early matches = =

 The team were met in Britain by local rugby administrators , including an official of England 's Rugby Football Union ( RFU ) .

 The first match of the tour was against Surrey , where the team became the first New Zealand side to perform a haka , and also the first to wear an all black uniform .

 The Surrey match , which was refereed by the RFU secretary George Rowland Hill , was won 4 – 1 by the Natives after they scored two tries .

 The Natives next defeated both Northamptonshire and Kent , before defeats by Moseley and Burton @-@ on @-@ Trent .

 The team recovered to win their next game , against Midlands Counties in Birmingham .

 Their next fixture was against Middlesex in a match not open to the public , and hosted by the Earl of Sheffield at Sheffield Park , Uckfield .

 The Middlesex side contained a number of international players , including Arthur Gould .

 Middlesex won easily , with the Natives play characterised by poor tackling .

 The final score was 9 – 0 , with three tries conceded by the New Zealanders .

 A report in the Auckland Star had this to say of the game :

 Such " passing " as the Home men displayed the Maoris frankly admit they have never previously witnessed .

 "

 Following the match against Middlesex , the team travelled to the north , where the strongest English rugby teams were based .

 Yorkshire and Lancashire dominated the county championship until many of their respective member clubs split from the RFU in 1895 over the issue of " broken time " payments .

 The New Zealanders lost to Hull 1 – 0 , defeated Dewsbury , then lost to Wakefield .

 After their first draw of the tour ( against Northumberland County ) they defeated Stockton @-@ on @-@ Tees and Tynemouth .

 Joe Warbrick appeared in the match against Tynemouth , but aggravated the foot injury that had kept him out of the side until that point .

 These victories were followed by a 13 – 4 defeat to Halifax on 10 November .

 The team then won seven matches in a row , including one against Hawick RFC , their only Scottish opposition of the tour .

 The last two matches that month were a loss to Swinton and a 9 – 0 victory over Liverpool and District .

 The team had played thirteen fixtures during November and won ten of them .

 By this point , the team was beset by injuries – of the fifteen players that played against Westmorland County on 24 November , five had injuries .

 The squad comprised only 26 players , and the tourists were often struggling to field a side .

 Nevertheless , their heavy schedule continued ; on 30 November 1888 they left for Dublin , where a match had been organised against the Ireland national team .

 The Ireland fixture was played at Lansdowne Road , Dublin , on 1 December 1888 .

 Both teams had a number of leading players out injured – the Irish were forced to make four changes to their original selection .

 Patrick Keogh scored the first two tries , and his play was praised by the local press .

 The third try scored was by Thomas Ellison after a counter @-@ attack by George Williams .

 The try was not converted , but the strong finish from the New Zealanders gave the visitors a 13 – 4 victory .

 The Irish press were surprised by the loss and strongly criticised their team , but Ireland did go on to defeat Wales two tries to nil in the 1889 Home Nations Championship .

 Following their defeat of Ireland , the Natives played Trinity College and then North of Ireland .

 The match against Trinity College was drawn 4 – 4 , and despite Keogh not playing , the Native side played much better than their previous fixture .

 The team then travelled to Belfast , where they defeated North of Ireland 2 – 0 on 5 December ; scoring two tries to nil .

 After returning to England , the Natives faced Lancashire in Manchester , where they lost 1 – 0 .

 Two days later they drew with Batley Bulldogs , despite their opposition scoring five tries .

 Yorkshire fielded a weakened team , and were subsequently defeated 10 – 6 by the Natives , who scored six tries .

 Four teams dominated Welsh international selection at the time , and out of the 15 @-@ man team only William Towers and William Bowen of Swansea and Dan Griffiths of Llanelli had been selected .

 Towers scored the first Welsh try , which was converted by Jim Webb .

 The Natives replied with a spirited run by Ellison , but he failed to break through the Welsh defence .

 The tourists trailed even further after George Thomas scored a breakaway try frrm the half @-@ way line , which went some way to silence the heckles from the crowd .

 Webb , playing in out of position at full @-@ back , missed the conversion and then failed at a long distance goal from a mark .

 Warbrick for the Natives and Stadden for Wales both subsequently came close to scoring tries , but there were no further scores in the game .

 In the 1886 Home Nations Championship Wales had trialled the four three @-@ quarter system , wherein the team would play with eight forwards rather than nine , and instead employ an extra centre three @-@ quarter .

 The system was deemed a failure and was particularly unpopular with star Welsh player Arthur Gould , whose formidable ability as a back allowed his club team Newport to retain the additional forward .

 Within six years the other three Home Countries had adopted four three @-@ quarter style of play .

 Before they left Wales , the Natives played Swansea and two other local clubs , Newport , and Cardiff .

 They finished their Welsh matches , and the year , with a 4 – 1 loss to Cardiff in front of a partisan crowd .

 = = Return to England = =

 The side entered 1889 having played 36 matches for 22 wins and three draws .

 The team would go on to play a further 17 matches before their 16 February international against England .

 This was followed by victories over Leeds Parish Church , Kirkstall , Brighouse Rangers , and Huddersfield .

 Following further matches against Stockport , Castleford , and Warrington , where the team drew , lost , then won , the side faced Yorkshire for a second time .

 Yorkshire had been criticised in the press for fielding a weakened line @-@ up against the Natives when the sides first met in December .

 After the unexpected loss , Yorkshire were determined to make amends and a strong side was selected for the county , including Fred Bonsor , Richard Lockwood and John Willie Sutcliffe , all of whom would appear for England against the Natives later that season .

 Described as " knocked about " and " stale " , the Natives struggled to compete against such strong opposition , and Yorkshire scored three converted tries before a try to Ellison left the scores at 9 – 1 at half @-@ time .

 The second @-@ half was little better for the Natives ; they conceded a further two tries as well as a drop @-@ goal .

 The second of these tries was scored by Lockwood after he ran the ball from his own half .

 Ellison scored a converted try late in the match , but this didn 't prevent the Natives suffering their largest defeat of the tour : 16 – 4 to the Yorkshiremen .

 Ellison later described the match as " without a murmur , the biggest beating we received in our whole tour " .

 After a victory over Spen Valley District , the team travelled west to play Somersetshire , Devonshire , Taunton , and Gloucestershire , and won all five games .

 The victory over Somerset was the New Zealanders ' largest of the tour ; they scored nine tries in a 17 – 4 victory .

 Half @-@ back Keogh played outstandingly for the Natives , while the entire side demonstrated superior passing and combination to their opposition .

 Devonshire and Tauton suffered heavy defeats by the New Zealanders , before a strong Gloucestershire side was dismissed .

 After defeating Midland Counties , the Natives returned to London .

 The team had two further matches before their international against England .

 The first was against one of the strongest clubs in England , Blackheath .

 The New Zealanders won having scored four tries , including two by Keogh .

 Their next opposition was a United Services side mainly comprising Royal Navy players .

 The Natives were again victorious , this time 10 – 0 .

 The match against Oxford University was postponed due to heavy frost , and so the team had a seven @-@ day break from playing – their longest of the tour .

 = = England international = =

 The match against England was causing the Natives ' players and management problems before it had even begun .

 The strictly amateur RFU establishment were already suspicious of the profit @-@ making motives of the Natives , and were unwilling to yield on the selection of venue .

 Ireland , Wales and Scotland consequently refused to play against England until 1891 , when , following arbitration , the RFU relented and joined the IRFB .

 The absence of international matches was a factor in England agreeing to face the Natives on 16 February 1889 .

 The line @-@ ups selected for the 16 February match were both strong , and close to full strength .

 Though 12 of the England side had not played internationally before , all were experienced at domestic level .

 The match was refereed by Rowland Hill , who had also officiated the Natives ' first match in Britain , against Surrey .

 Later in the half England scored two tries through Harry Bedford , but both were disputed by the Natives , who claimed that one of their players had grounded the ball in @-@ goal .

 England took the two @-@ try advantage into the second half .

 Early in the second half a third disputed try was scored by the English .

 The try and its aftermath caused controversy and a rift between the Natives and the RFU .

 Ellison attempted to tackle the English player Stoddart , and in the process ripped his shorts off .

 The Natives quickly formed a circle around Stoddart to allow him to replace his clothing without being seen .

 While this was happening one of the English players , Frank Evershed , picked up the ball and scored a try .

 The New Zealanders protested , believing that play had stopped after claiming Stoddart had called " dead ball " – but Hill awarded the try , prompting three of the Native players , Dick Taiaroa , Williams , and Sherry Wynyard , to leave the field in protest .

 Ellison wrote after the tour that " gross as these errors were , they were insignificant when compared with another that Mr Hill committed at the outset of the game , viz , refereeing at all in that game " .

 The disputed try was followed by a final try for the English , who ultimately won 7 – 0 .

 The English authorities of the time believed that the decision of a referee was above question , and that protesting a decision as the New Zealanders had done was unsportsmanlike .

 The London establishment that governed the game were disturbed by the New Zealanders ' approach to the game ; reports of rough and over @-@ aggressive play by the Natives had steadily increased in frequency since their arrival in Britain .

 Some of the Natives , including Joe Warbrick , accused the RFU and the English press of hypocrisy , claiming that they were quick to criticise the New Zealanders for rough play , yet tolerant of similar behaviour from their own players .

 The Natives remained in London following the England international .

 They defeated London Welsh on 18 February , before losing first to Cambridge , then Oxford University .

 From there they travelled north and won two matches before losing to Leigh .

 After a win over Runcorn , there was a defeat to Oldham , played on a ground Eyton said was so frozen it was dangerous .

 After reversing their previous loss to Halifax with a 6 – 0 win , the Natives suffered a loss to Barrow and District on 7 March .

 The New Zealanders then had a run of seven straight wins before a 1 – 1 draw with Hull .

 The team struggled to find an opponent for their final match in Britain .

 They eventually played Southern Counties , and beat them 3 – 1 .

 This was their 74th match in the British Isles and their 49th victory .

 The authorities and press in London continued to view the team negatively , and the Natives boarded ship without a formal farewell .

 = = Australia = =

 The majority of the Natives left Plymouth on 29 March ( Eyton and Pie Wynyard followed a week later ) .

 They arrived in Melbourne in May , where the team played mostly Victorian Rules football , hoping to make more money that way .

 The side 's success in their rugby matches contrasted to their failure in Victorian Rules – the New Zealanders played three rugby matches while in Victoria : against Melbourne , a Navy selection , and Victoria .

 The matches were all won , with their game against Victoria a 19 – 0 victory .

 After this they left for Sydney for further rugby matches , and defeated New South Wales 12 – 9 .

 Another two victories followed , before the team played their only association football matches of the tour – both defeats .

 The Natives faced Queensland at the Association Ground in Brisbane .

 Billy Warbrick suffered a kick to the head , and had to retire early in the second @-@ half .

 Following the loss of Warbrick , the play of the Natives improved and they recovered to win 11 – 7 .

 Eyton later said :

 The response from the team 's management was to suspend four players .

 The team travelled to Toowoomba , where they defeated the locals 19 – 0 .

 The Natives included a replacement player for only the second time , Charles Speakman , after the suspensions reduced the playing strength of the side .

 The team then travelled back to New Zealand , and arrived in Invercargill on 5 August .

 = = Return to New Zealand = =

 Two days after their return , the Natives faced Southland , who they defeated 5 – 1 in front of a crowd of 2 @ , @ 000 .

 The side suffered further injury , to Harry Lee , and recruited Southlander W. Hirst for their match against Mataura District on 8 August .

 The Northern Rugby Union ( since renamed Queensland Rugby Union ) summarised the incident and aftermath in the 1889 Queensland Rugby Union Annual :

 ... it was apparent to a judge of the game that something was wrong with the Maori , as they were not showing their usual dash and combination .

 Four members of the team were suspended , a charge being made against them of attempting the sell the match .

 The matter was bought before the Otago Union , who passed the following resolution :

 The Natives outscored their opponents five tries to two , and won 11 – 8 .

 The side 's star player and half @-@ back , Keogh , stayed in Dunedin when the team departed for Christchurch .

 The side faced Hawke 's Bay , who were touring , in Christchurch , and handily defeated them 13 – 2 .

 The side then faced Canterbury on 17 August , who they thrashed 15 – 0 .

 The report published in The Press said of the Natives ' performance :

 The side left Christchurch and travelled north where they played Wairarapa in Masterton .

 The match was won 10 – 8 , and the next day they faced Wellington , who they also defeated .

 After this the Natives travelled to Auckland where they played their last match , against the province on 24 August .

 The match was lost 7 – 2 after each team scored two tries each , but the Aucklanders kicked a drop @-@ goal and a conversion .

 The loss ended a remarkable run of matches – the Natives had a 31 @-@ game unbeaten streak in rugby matches that started with their victory over Widnes on 9 March ; the side won 30 , and drew one match between the defeats .

 = = Impact and legacy = =

 The tour had a significant impact on the development of rugby within New Zealand .

 By the time the Natives returned to New Zealand , they had developed into a side superior to any in the country , and introduced a number of tactical innovations .

 Seventeen of the 26 players went on to play provincially in New Zealand , and two , Ellison and David Gage , subsequently captained New Zealand .

 The Native team , along with Joe Warbrick , was inducted into the IRB Hall of Fame in 2008 – the seventh inductee .

 = = Squad = =

 The squad consisted of 26 players .

 The exact names of several of the players is unknown .

 = = Matches played = =

 = = = Overall = = =

 = = = Internationals = = =

 = = = = Ireland = = = =

 = = = = England = = = =

 = Éva Gauthier =

 The niece of Lady Laurier and Sir Wilfrid Laurier , who also were her patrons , she initially trained and performed in Europe .

 She then travelled to Java and for four years immersed herself in its native music , which she introduced to North American audiences on her return .

 Gauthier was praised for the many qualities her singing brought to music .

 The citation from the Campion Society of San Francisco , which she received in 1949 , said : " ... her rare open @-@ mindedness and unorthodox enthusiasm having been initially responsible for the recognition of many vital and important modern composers "

 = = Singing career = =

 Born in Ottawa , Ontario , Gauthier received musical lessons as a child , in harmony , voice , and piano .

 = = = Training in Europe = = =

 Gauthier travelled to France , where she received private voice lessons from Auguste @-@ Jean Dubulle of the Paris Conservatory .

 Nodules on her vocal cords were problematic , but they were removed surgically .

 She later began training under Jacques Bouhy , whom she would later credit for her vocal technique .

 In 1906 , Gauthier was retained by fellow Canadian singer Emma Albani to accompany her on a tour of England and her Canadian farewell tour .

 Albani provided a degree of mentorship to Gauthier during the 30 week tour of Canada .

 Lord Strathcona awarded Gauthier a scholarship in 1906 that allowed her to return to Europe and continue her vocal studies .

 She returned there and continued both to study and give performances .

 Her first operatic performance came in 1909 in Pavia , Italy as Micaëla in Bizet 's Carmen .

 She landed a second operatic role as Mallika in Delibes ' Lakmé , which was being performed by the London Covent Garden opera company .

 The opera opened in June 1910 .

 Supposedly , Luisa Tetrazzini , the prima donna soprano of the company , feared that Gauthier 's voice would outshine her own , and demanded that Gauthier be removed from the opera .

 The company 's director acquiesced to Tetrazzini 's demands , informing Gauthier on opening night that she would not be performing .

 Gauthier reacted badly , and quit opera entirely .

 Disappointed by her blocked entry into the operatic scene , Gauthier departed Europe and travelled to Java .

 There , she met a Dutch importer and plantation manager named Frans Knoote .

 Gauthier and Knoote married on May 22 , 1911 .

 Gauthier studied the music of Java , and began to include this in her repertoire .

 While living in Java , Gauthier travelled extensively , giving performances in China , Japan , Singapore , Malaya , Australia , and New Zealand .

 She remained in Java for four years , but with the outbreak of World War I she decided to travel back to North America , arriving in New York City in the fall of 1915 .

 Arriving in New York , Gauthier struggled to find a niche in an already crowded music scene .

 She put on a performance in Vaudeville entitled Songmotion , which combined Javan music with dancers .

 New York was already home to many North American and European musical performers , so Gauthier focused on her Javan musical repertoire , which she combined with knowledge and skill in modernist western singing .

 Gauthier began giving annual recitals at Aeolian Hall , and in November 1917 her performance there caught the eye of many leading composers .

 She gave renditions of three songs by Maurice Ravel .

 Her performance then also included American premieres of Stravinsky 's Three Japanese Lyrics and Griffes ' Five Poems of Ancient China and Japan .

 The performance was a great success , and she began to receive invitations to perform premieres of songs by contemporary composers .

 Stravinsky arranged to have Gauthier to premiere all of his vocal pieces .

 Gauthier travelled to Paris in 1920 at the behest of the Music League of America .

 Sent there to arrange a tour of North America by Maurice Ravel , she struck up a friendship and professional correspondence not only with him , but also with Erik Satie and Les six .

 This led to more music being sent to her by various composers that she would premiere in concert .

 She accepted and premiered almost all works sent to her , the only exception being a refusal to perform Pierrot Lunaire by Arnold Schoenberg .

 Through this , Gauthier performed large amounts of contemporary French music across the United States .

 She also included American music in all of her concerts .

 Gauthier toured America frequently and returned to Europe in 1922 , and again in 1923 .

 She began to explore Jazz music in concert as well , earning her negative reviews by many musical critics .

 Her 1923 annual performance at Aeolian Hall entitled " Recital of Ancient and Modern Music for Voice " became a historic occasion when she presented the works of George Gershwin , the first time his works were performed by a classical singer in concert .

 The first half of the programme presented works considered serious music at the time .

 She performed both classical works by Vincenzo Bellini and Henry Purcell , mixing them with modernist and neoclassical works by Arnold Schoenberg , Darius Milhaud , Béla Bartók , and Paul Hindemith .

 The second half of her performance would upset the musical establishment , however .

 She opened with Alexander 's Ragtime Band by Irving Berlin , then performed works by Jerome Kern and Walter Donaldson , and finally finished with three works by George Gershwin : I 'll Build a Stairway to Paradise , Innocent Ingénue Baby , and Swanee .

 Gershwin played the piano for these pieces .

 Important figures in the audience included Ernestine Schumann @-@ Heink , Virgil Thomson , and Paul Whiteman .

 Gauthier continued to present music that was thought poorly of by conservative audiences .

 A critic in Vienna welcomed her musical selection as a reprieve from the usual fare of classical performances - Schubert , Brahms , Wolf , Richard Strauss - while praising her skill with more classical choices .

 Other performances suffered – she was booed while performing works by Heitor Villa @-@ Lobos at the Festival of the International Society of Contemporary Music in Venice .

 She became a celebrity , and continued giving performances across the United States , Europe , and her native Canada .

 As time passed she began to engage more and more in teaching , and less and less in stage performing .

 Her income from teaching was substantially better than from touring .

 She retired from performing entirely in 1937 , and opened a music studio in New York .

 There she became a founding member of the American Guild of Musical Artists , serving on its board of governors .

 She died on December 20 , 1958 .

 = = Views of critics and audiences = =

 Gauthier was a controversial musician in her time .

 Her choice of music for performance was often condemned , and often praised .

 A May 1 , 1917 review by the New York Times praised her natural talent , with some reservations about the unpolished quality of her voice .

 "

 A November 12 , 1923

 Time review of her performance of historic Italian songs , as well as modern English , French , Austrian , German and American numbers focused on her choice to include selections of contemporary jazz music .

 The critic remarked "

 Here she was praised as a serious , scholarly artist whose performance was " ... neat and expressive . "

 The audience received the concert very enthusiastically .

 Them .

 = = Archival materials = =

 Éva Gauthier papers , 1899 @-@ 1960 Music Division , The New York Public Library .

 = Battle of Sullivan 's Island =

 The Battle of Sullivan 's Island or the Battle of Fort Sullivan was fought on June 28 , 1776 , during the American Revolutionary War .

 It took place near Charleston , South Carolina , during the first British attempt to capture the city from American rebels .

 The British organized an expedition in early 1776 for operations in the rebellious southern colonies of North America .

 Delayed by logistical concerns and bad weather , the expedition reached the coast of North Carolina in May 1776 .

 Finding conditions unsuitable for their operations , General Henry Clinton and Admiral Sir Peter Parker decided instead to act against Charleston .

 Arriving there in early June , troops were landed on Long Island , near Sullivan 's Island where Colonel William Moultrie commanded a partially constructed fort , in preparation for a naval bombardment and land assault .

 General Charles Lee , commanding the southern Continental theater of the war , would provide supervision .

 The land assault was frustrated when the channel between the two islands was found to be too deep to wade , and the American defenses prevented an amphibious landing .

 The naval bombardment had little effect due to the sandy soil and the spongy nature of the fort 's palmetto log construction .

 Careful fire by the defenders wrought significant damage on the British fleet , which withdrew after an entire day 's bombardment .

 The British withdrew their expedition force to New York , and did not return to South Carolina until 1780 .

 = = Background = =

 The city 's citizens joined other colonists in opposing the British parliament 's attempts to tax them , and militia recruitment increased when word arrived of the April 1775 Battles of Lexington and Concord .

 Throughout 1775 and into 1776 , militia recruits arrived in the city from the colony 's backcountry , the city 's manufacturers and tradesmen began producing war materiel , and defensive fortifications began to take shape around the city .

 = = = British operations = = =

 Seeking bases of operations where they had more control , the British planned an expedition to the southern colonies .

 The plan was beset by difficulties from the start .

 Despite this , Clinton made no secret that his final target was in the south .

 Clinton arrived at Cape Fear on March 12 , expecting to find the European convoy already there .

 Clinton also received pleas for assistance from the royal governor of Georgia , James Wright , who had been arrested , and then escaped to a navy ship .

 Parker 's fleet had an extremely difficult crossing .

 John Rutledge , recently elected president of the General Assembly that remained as the backbone of South Carolina 's revolutionary government , organized a defense force under the command of 46 @-@ year @-@ old Colonel William Moultrie , a former militiaman and Indian fighter .

 These forces comprised three infantry regiments , two rifle regiments , and a small artillery regiment ; they were augmented by three independent artillery companies , and the total force numbered about 2 @ , @ 000 .

 Moultrie saw Sullivan 's Island , a sandy spit of land at the entrance to Charleston Harbor extending north about 4 miles ( 6 @.@ 4 km ) long and a few hundred yards wide , as a place well suited to build a fort that could protect the entrance from intruding enemy warships .

 A large vessel sailing into Charleston first had to cross Charleston Bar , a series of submerged shoals lying about 8 miles ( 13 km ) southeast of the city , and then pass by the southern end of Sullivan 's Island as it entered the channel to the inner harbor .

 Later it would also have to pass the northern end of James Island , where Fort Johnson commanded the southeastern approach to the city .

 Moultrie and his 2nd South Carolina Regiment arrived on Sullivan 's Island in March 1776 , and began construction of a fortress to defend the island and the channel into Charleston Harbor .

 The gun platforms were made of planks two inches thick and fastened with wooden spikes .

 Congress had appointed General Lee to command the Continental Army troops in the southern colonies , and his movements by land shadowed those of Clinton 's fleet as it sailed south .

 He headed for Charleston , saying " [ I ] confess I know not whether I shall go to or from the enemy . "

 He arrived in Charleston shortly after the fleet anchored outside the harbor , and took command of the city 's defenses .

 Some South Carolina troops resisted his instructions , and Rutledge had to intervene by proclaiming Lee in command of all South Carolina forces .

 The walls were filled with sand , and rose 10 feet ( 3 @.@ 0 m ) above the wooden platforms on which the artillery were mounted .

 A hastily erected palisade of thick planks helped guard the powder magazine and unfinished northern walls .

 Lee did make plans for an orderly retreat to Haddrell 's Point .

 = = = British arrival = = =

 The British fleet weighed anchor at Cape Fear on May 31 , and arrived outside Charleston Harbor the next day .

 Moultrie noticed a British scout boat apparently looking for possible landing points on nearby Long Island ( now known as the Isle of Palms ) , just a few hundred yards from Sullivan 's Island ; troops were consequently sent to occupy the northern end of Sullivan 's .

 With the fort on Sullivan 's Island only half complete , Admiral Parker expressed confidence that his warships would easily breach its walls .

 However , the inexperienced defenders fired on the boat sent to deliver it ( which was flying a truce flag ) , and it was not delivered until the next day .

 That same day , Clinton began landing 2 @ , @ 200 troops on Long Island .

 General Lee responded to the British landing with several actions .

 He began reinforcing positions on the mainland in case the British were intending to launch an attack directly on Charleston .

 The Americans also constructed an entrenchment at the northern end of Sullivan 's Island , which was manned by more than 750 men and three small cannons , and began to fortify a guard post at Haddrell 's Point on the mainland opposite Fort Sullivan .

 General Clinton encountered the first major problem of the attack plan on June 17 .

 An attempt to wade the channel between the two islands established that part of the channel was at least shoulder @-@ deep , too deep for troops to cross even without the prospect of enemy opposition .

 As a result , the British and American forces faced each other across the channel , engaging in occasional and largely inconsequential cannon fire at long range .

 The attack was originally planned for June 24 , but bad weather and contrary wind conditions prompted Parker to call it off for several days .

 = = Battle = =

 Less than an hour later , nine warships had sailed into positions facing the fort .

 Thunder and Friendship anchored about 1 @.@ 5 miles ( 2 @.@ 4 km ) from the fort while Parker took Active , Bristol , Experiment and Solebay to a closer position about 400 yards ( 370 m ) from Sullivan 's Island , where they anchored facing broadside to the fort .

 Each of these ships began to fire upon the fort when it reached its position , and the defenders returned the fire .

 Owing to shortage of gunpowder , Moultrie 's men were deliberate in the pace of their gunfire , and only a few officers actually aimed the cannons .

 They also fired in small volleys , four cannon at a time .

 "

 General Clinton began movements to cross over to the northern end of Sullivan 's Island .

 Assisted by two sloops of war , the flotilla of longboats carrying his troops came under fire from Colonel William Thomson 's defenses .

 Facing a withering barrage of grape shot and rifle fire , Clinton abandoned the attempt .

 However , all three ships grounded on an uncharted sandbar , and the riggings of Actaeon and Sphinx became entangled in the process .

 The British managed to refloat Sphinx and Syren , but Acteon remained grounded , having moved too far onto the submerged sandbar .

 At the fort , Moultrie ordered his men to concentrate their fire on the two large man @-@ of @-@ war ships , Bristol and Experiment , which took hit after hit from the fort 's guns .

 Chain shot fired at Bristol eventually destroyed much of her rigging and severely damaged both the main - and mizzenmasts .

 One round hit her quarterdeck , slightly wounding Parker in the knee and thigh .

 The shot also tore off part of his britches , leaving his backside exposed .

 This strategy failed due to the spongy nature of the palmetto wood used in its constructions ; the structure would quiver , and it absorbed the cannonballs rather than splintering .

 The exchange continued until around 9 : 00 pm , when darkness forced a cessation of hostilities , and the fleet finally withdrew out of range .

 At one point during the battle , the flag Moultrie had designed and raised over the fort was shot down .

 Sergeant William Jasper reportedly ran to the battlement and raised the flag again , holding it up and rallying the troops until a flag stand could be provided .

 He was credited by Moultrie with reviving the troops ' spirits , and later given commendations for bravery .

 A painting of this event ( pictured above ) depicts Jasper 's actions .

 Counting casualties , Parker reported 40 sailors killed and 71 wounded aboard Bristol , which was hit more than 70 times with much damage to the hull , yards , and rigging .

 Experiment was also badly damaged with 23 sailors killed and 56 wounded .

 Active and Solebay reported 15 casualties each .

 The following morning , the British , unable to drag the grounded Acteon off the sandbar , set fire to the ship to prevent her from falling into enemy hands .

 Patriots in small boats sailed out to the burning ship , fired some of its cannons at the British ships , took what stores and loot they could , and retreated shortly before the ship 's powder magazine exploded .

 = = Aftermath = =

 The British did not attempt to take the fort again .

 Within days of the battle , Charlestonians learned of the signing of the Declaration of Independence in Philadelphia .

 The British troops were reembarked on their transports , and on July 21 the British fleet withdrew northward to help the main British army in its campaign against New York City .

 Until the South again became a focus of the war in late 1778 , its states provided military supplies to the northern war effort and produced trade goods that brought in valuable hard currency to fund the war effort .

 Admiral Parker and General Clinton engaged in a war of words after the battle , each seeking to cast the blame on the other for the expedition 's failures .

 Although Clinton was not blamed by the government , popular opinion held him responsible , and Parker was lauded for his personal bravery .

 = = Legacy = =

 Fort Sullivan was renamed Fort Moultrie shortly after the battle to honor Colonel William Moultrie for his successful defense of the fort and the city of Charleston .

 A small monument to the Battle of Sullivan 's Island has been placed at the northeastern tip of the island , overlooking the inlet where General Clinton 's soldiers had hoped to cross .

 The monument includes historical markers describing the events surrounding the engagement .

 One iconic emblem of the battle was the flag designed by Colonel Moultrie .

 Commissioned by the colonial government , he designed a blue flag with a white crescent in the top left corner , which was flown at the fort during the battle .

 Despite being shot down during the siege , it was seen as a symbol of this successful defense ( and famously raised during victory ) .

 It came to be known as the Moultrie flag or Liberty Flag .

 = Hu Zhengyan =

 Hu lived in Nanjing during the transition from the Ming dynasty to the Qing dynasty .

 He owned and operated an academic publishing house called the Ten Bamboo Studio , in which he practised various multi @-@ colour printing and embossing techniques , and he employed several members of his family in this enterprise .

 Hu 's work at the Ten Bamboo Studio pioneered new techniques in colour printmaking , leading to delicate gradations of colour which were not previously achievable in this art form .

 Hu is best known for his manual of painting entitled The Ten Bamboo Studio Manual of Painting and Calligraphy , an artist 's primer which remained in print for around 200 years .

 His studio also published seal catalogues , academic and medical texts , books on poetry , and decorative writing papers .

 Many of these were edited and prefaced by Hu and his brothers .

 = = Biography = =

 Hu was born in Xiuning County , Anhui Province in 1584 or early 1585 .

 Both his father and elder brother Zhengxin ( 正心 , art name Wusuo , 無所 ) were physicians , and after he turned 30 he travelled with them while they practised medicine in the areas around Lu 'an and Huoshan .

 It is commonly stated that Zhengyan himself was also a doctor , though the earliest sources attesting to this occur only in the second half of the 19th century .

 By 1619 , Hu had moved to Nanjing where he lived with his wife Wu .

 Hu named it the Ten Bamboo Studio ( Shizhuzhai , 十竹齋 ) , after the ten bamboo plants that grew in front of the property .

 Hu retired from public life and went into seclusion in 1646 , after the end of the Ming dynasty .

 Xiao Yuncong and Lü Liuliang recorded visiting him during his later years , in 1667 and 1673 respectively .

 He died in poverty at the age of 90 , sometime around late 1673 or early 1674 .

 = = Seal @-@ carving = =

 His style was rooted in the classical seal script of the Han dynasty , and he followed the Huizhou school of carving founded by his contemporary He Zhen .

 Hu 's work was known outside his local area .

 In 1644 , Hu took it upon himself to create a new Imperial seal for the Hongguang Emperor , which he carved after a period of fasting and prayer .

 He presented his creation with an essay , the Great Exhortation of the Seal ( Dabao Zhen , 大寶印 ) , in which he bemoaned the loss of the Chongzhen Emperor 's seal and begged Heaven 's favour in restoring it .

 = = Ten Bamboo Studio = =

 His publishing house , the Ten Bamboo Studio , produced reference works on calligraphy , poetry and art ; medical textbooks ; books on etymology and phonetics ; and copies of as well as commentaries on the Confucian Classics .

 Between 1627 and 1644 , the Ten Bamboo Studio produced over twenty printed books of this kind , aimed at a wealthy , literary audience .

 The studio 's earliest publications were medical textbooks , the first of which , Tested Prescriptions for Myriad Illnesses ( Wanbing Yanfang , 萬病驗方 ) was published in 1631 and proved popular enough to be reissued ten years later .

 Hu 's brother Zhengxin was a medical practitioner and appears to have been the author of these books .

 Despite Hu 's withdrawal from society after 1646 , the studio continued to publish well into the Qing dynasty , for the most part focussing on seal impression catalogues showcasing Hu 's carving work .

 The Ming dynasty had seen considerable advancement in the process of colour printing in China .

 At his studio , Hu Zhengyan experimented with various forms of woodblock printing , creating processes for producing multi @-@ coloured prints and embossed printed designs .

 As a result , he was able to produce some of China 's first printed publications in colour , using a block printing technique known as " assorted block printing " ( douban yinshua , 饾板印刷 ) .

 This system made use of multiple blocks , each carved with a different part of the final image and each bearing a different colour .

 Hu also employed a related form of multiple @-@ block printing called " set @-@ block printing " ( taoban yinshua , 套板印刷 ) , which had existed since the Yuan period some 200 years earlier but had only recently come into fashion again .

 He refined these block printing techniques by developing a process for wiping some of the ink off the blocks before printing ; this enabled him to achieve gradation and modulation of shades which were not previously possible .

 In some images , Hu employed a blind embossing technique ( known as " embossed designs " ( gonghua , 拱花 ) or " embossed blocks " ( gongban , 拱板 ) , using an uninked , imprinted block to stamp designs onto paper .

 He used this to create white relief effects for clouds and for highlights on water or plants .

 Wu had used this technique for the first time in his book Wisteria Studio Letter Paper ( Luoxuan Biangu Jianpu , 蘿軒變古箋譜 ) , published in 1626 .

 Both Hu and Wu used embossing to create decorative writing papers , the sale of which provided a sideline income for the Ten Bamboo Studio .

 = = Major works = =

 Some of these sections had been released previously as single volumes .

 Although these instructions only appear in the sections on orchids and bamboo , the book still remains the first example of a categorical and analytical approach to Chinese painting .

 This binding style allows the reader to lay the book flat in order to look at a particular image .

 Cambridge University Library released a complete digital scan of the manual , including all writings and illustrations in August , 2015 .

 "

 The popularity of the Ten Bamboo Studio Manual was such that print runs continued to be produced all the way through to the late Qing dynasty .

 Hu also produced the work Ten Bamboo Studio Letter Paper ( Shizhuzhai Jianpu , 十竹齋箋譜 ) , a collection of paper samples , which made use of the gonghua stamped embossing technique to make the illustrations stand out in relief .

 Whilst primarily a catalogue of decorative writing papers , it also contained paintings of rocks , people , ritual vessels and other subjects .

 = = = Other publications = = =

 With his brother Zhengxin , Hu edited a new introductory edition of the Confucian classics , entitled The Standardised Text of the Four Books , Identified and Corrected ( Sishu Dingben Bianzheng , 四書定本辨正 ) ( 1640 ) , giving the correct formation and pronunciation of the text .

 A similar approach was taken with the Essentials of the Thousand Character Classic in Six Scripts ( Qianwen Liushu Tongyao , 千文六書統要 ) ( 1663 ) , which Hu compiled with the aid of his calligraphy teacher , Li Deng .

 It was published after Li 's death , partly in homage to him .

 The three Hu brothers worked together to collate a student primer on poetry by their contemporary Ye Tingxiu , which was called simply the Discussion of Poetry ( Shi Tan , 詩譚 ) ( 1635 ) .

 Among the studio 's more obscure publications was a text on Chinese dominoes entitled Paitong Fuyu ( 牌統浮玉 ) , written under a pseudonym but with a preface by Hu Zhengyan .

 = = Gallery = =

 = Raid on Manila ( 1798 ) =

 Spain had transformed from an ally of Great Britain in the War of the First Coalition into an enemy in 1796 .

 After completing his mission Cooke decided to investigate the state of readiness of Spanish forces in Manila himself .

 He was also intrigued by reports that a ship carrying treasure was due to sail from Manila , which would make a valuable prize .

 Sailing in Sybille and accompanied by Captain Pulteney Malcolm in Fox , Cooke reached the Spanish capital on 13 January 1798 .

 Anchored in Manila Bay , Cooke pretended that his ships were French vessels and successfully lured successive boatloads of Spanish officials aboard , taking them prisoner in turn .

 Capturing the gunboats in a bloodless attack , Cooke then released his prisoners and sailed southwards , unsuccessfully assaulting Zamboanga before returning to Macau .

 = = Background = =

 In 1796 , after three years of the French Revolutionary Wars , Spain and the French Republic signed the Treaty of San Ildefonso .

 The secret terms of this treaty required Spain to renounce its alliance with Great Britain and subsequently to declare war on its former ally .

 In the East Indies this shift of political allegiance meant that the dominant British forces in the region were faced with the threat of attack from the Spanish Philippines to the east .

 Britain dominated the East Indies in 1796 , controlling the trade routes through the Indian Ocean from the ports of Bombay , Madras and Calcutta .

 Dutch Ceylon , the Dutch Cape Colony and parts of the Dutch East Indies had been captured in 1795 , and the French presence in the region had been confined to Île de France and a few subsidiary islands in the Western Indian Ocean .

 Some of the most important trade routes began at Canton and Macau in Qing Dynasty China .

 In the ensuing Bali Strait Incident the commander deceived Sercey into believing that the unescorted convoy contained disguised ships of the line and the French admiral retreated , only learning of his error on his return to Île de France .

 Rainier 's initial impulse on learning in November 1796 of the impending declaration of war between Britain and Spain was to draw up plans for a major invasion of the Philippines , centred on Manila in repetition of the successful British capture of Manila in 1762 .

 The resources planned for the operation against Manila were therefore retained in India and the operation cancelled , but the protection of the China Fleet was still essential and Rainier diverted some of his squadron eastwards to China .

 The convoy arrived without incident on 13 December 1797 , although the crews had been substantially weakened by tropical illnesses .

 = = Cooke 's raids = =

 With his convoy safely at anchor in Macau and the China Fleet several weeks from sailing , Cooke decided to reconnoitre Manila and make observations on the port and the Spanish squadron based there .

 As an added motivation , rumours in Macau suggested that the annual Manila galleon was due to arrive .

 This ship brought up to two million Spanish silver dollars from Acapulco across the Pacific Ocean stopping at Guam on its way to Manila .

 This round trip was essential to the maintenance of the Spanish Empire in the East Indies , which operated at an enormous financial loss only mitigated by the substantial subsidy from New Spain .

 Passing Luzon , Cooke 's ships encountered a small Spanish merchant vessel , which was lured towards the frigates , which were flying French tricolors .

 Seizing the Spanish vessel , Cooke closely questioned the captain and learned that most of the Spanish squadron in Manila were undergoing extensive repairs at Cavite and were unfit to sail .

 Cooke rewarded the captain by releasing his vessel with its cargo intact , although he did remove 3 @ , @ 900 silver dollars .

 Cooke had taken precautions to disguise his ships as French vessels , modelling Sybille on the powerful 40 @-@ gun Forte and Fox on the smaller Prudente .

 Late in the afternoon of 13 January 1798 , Sybille and Fox arrived in Manila Bay , slipping unchallenged past the fortress of Corregidor and then sailing across the bay on the morning of 14 January , anchoring between Manila and Cavite .

 From his vantage point Cooke could see the Spanish squadron dismasted and under repair in Cavite , the ships of the line San Pedro , Europa and Montañés and the frigates Maria de la Cabeya and Luisa in dock and unfit for action .

 To Cooke 's disappointment he could also see the Manila galleon , Marquesetta being unloaded at the Cavite docks and another valuable merchant ship Rey Carlos aground in the harbour .

 The Spanish had learned only shortly before Cooke 's arrival that the British frigate HMS Resistance under Captain Edward Pakenham was in Philippine waters and had decided to remove the valuable cargo from the treasure ship rather than risk an attack .

 Cooke then joined the party on the deck of Fox , claiming to be Commodore Latour , a French officer who , unknown to the Spanish , had been killed in the Action of 9 September 1796 off Sumatra .

 The Spanish officer was now completely convinced by the ruse , which had been augmented by fake French uniforms .

 For an hour the officers drank , Malcolm and Cooke learning detailed information about the state of the defences and squadron in the Philippines , until a second boat pulled alongside Fox containing more officers keen to greet the French arrivals .

 Each time , the officers were escorted below to join the festivities whereupon their crews were seized at gunpoint and taken below decks as prisoners of war .

 The crew of Fox meanwhile forced the captured Spanish sailors to strip and donned their clothing .

 Climbing into the Spanish boats this party rowed for the mouth of the nearby Pasig River , where they had learned that three heavy gunboats were moored .

 These vessels normally carried crews of thirty and were well @-@ armed , one with a 32 @-@ pounder long gun and two with 24 @-@ pounder long guns , each supplemented by four swivel guns .

 The harbour captain reached Fox shortly afterwards , furious at the seizure of the gunboats and demanding they be returned .

 Malcolm received him with a tirade of near incomprehensible French and brought him to join the other captured officers in his cabin , while the boat 's crew were imprisoned below decks .

 Once the meal was finished , Cooke allowed all of the captives to return to their boats and row for shore without the conditions of parole , although he retained the captured gunboats .

 = = = Zamboanga = = =

 Cooke led his small squadron past Corregidor on 15 January and turned south .

 Four days later in a storm one of the gunboats broke its tow line and was never seen again , lost with its twelve crew .

 The frigates subsequently scouted Mindanao before reaching Zamboanga on 22 January .

 There Cooke raised Spanish colours in an attempt to deceive the authorities into supplying food and water to his squadron but Sybille grounded on a sandbank at the entrance to the port which raised the suspicions of a guardboat sent by the governor of Zamboanga , Raymundo Español .

 With the defenders forewarned , Cooke abandoned his ruse and after refloating Sybille the following morning , ordered a bombardment of the fort protecting the harbour .

 This had little effect , though later the Spanish recovered at least 450 cannonballs from different calibers , and Malcolm then attempted an amphibious landing in order to storm the landward side of the fort .

 The boats came under heavy fire , one smashed by a cannonball , killing two and wounding four .

 After exchanging shot for an hour both frigates cut their anchor cables and retreated out of range , with two dead and one wounded on Sybille and eight wounded on Fox , in addition to those lost in the boats .

 The defenders lost a single man killed and 4 wounded .

 With his frigates now requiring repairs , Cooke withdraw half a league from Zamboanga and spent three days refitting the masts and rigging of the ships .

 Then he sailed north , scuttling the two remaining gunboats as he did not believe they would survive the return journey to Canton .

 Four days later , on 27 January the squadron halted at a village named " Pullock " in the north of the Sultanate of Maguindanao to collect fresh water .

 On the beach a boat party from Sybille was set upon by Lumad tribesmen .

 Two were killed and nine others taken captive and dragged into the forest before rescuers could arrive .

 = = Aftermath = =

 Cooke 's opportunistic diversion had determined that the Spanish forces in the Philippines posed no immediate threat , although the mission had cost 18 lives :

 Admiral Rainier later expressed his satisfaction with the outcome in a letter to the Admiralty .

 More might have been achieved with reinforcements :

 Historian C. Northcote Parkinson suggests that had Cooke 's squadron united with Resistance together they may have been able to destroy the disarmed Spanish warships at Cavite .

 Historian Richard Woodman was critical of the mission , considering the operation to have " no glorious outcome " and citing the failure to capture the treasure ships as its greatest short @-@ coming .

 The 1798 China Fleet sailed without further incident .

 At the beginning of February 1799 , this combined force sailed to Macau , taking the British defences by surprise .

 The British commander Captain William Hargood counterattacked , advancing on the Franco @-@ Spanish force which retreated during the day and disappeared under cover of darkness that evening in the Wanshan Archipelago .

 The frigates Cooke had mimicked , Forte and Prudente were sent to operate independently against British trade in the Indian Ocean in early 1799 .

 In the ensuing battle Forte was captured but Cooke mortally wounded , dying on 25 May .

 = B of the Bang =

 It was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa .

 The sculpture was commissioned in 2003 ; construction overran and the official unveiling was delayed until 12 January 2005 .

 Six days before the launch , the sculpture suffered the first of three visible structural problems as the tip of one of the spikes detached and fell to the ground .

 Legal action started a year later , resulting in an out @-@ of @-@ court settlement totalling £ 1 @.@ 7 million .

 In February 2009 , Manchester City Council announced that the sculpture would be dismantled and placed in storage .

 Despite the promise of storage and potential reassembly , the core and legs of the sculpture were cut apart during removal .

 = = Design and statistics = =

 B of the Bang originally stood 56 metres ( 184 ft ) tall with 180 hollow tapered steel columns or spikes radiating from a central core .

 It was angled at 30 degrees and supported by five 25 m ( 82 ft ) long , tapered steel legs which connected to the spikes 22 m ( 72 ft ) above the ground .

 The foundations are 20 m ( 66 ft ) deep .

 This layer inhibits further corrosion by reducing its permeability to water .

 As part of the design , the spikes swayed slightly in the wind in order to withstand gusts in excess of 100 mph ( 160 km / h ) .

 At the time of construction a time capsule was placed in one of the spikes of the sculpture , containing children 's poems and paintings , due to be opened circa 2300 .

 The location of the time capsule after dismantling is currently unknown .

 It was designed to look like an exploding firework and was taller and leaned at a greater angle than the Leaning Tower of Pisa .

 It was commissioned by New East Manchester Limited to commemorate the 2002 Commonwealth Games .

 The design was selected by a panel consisting of both local residents and art experts via a competition in 2002 and was designed by Thomas Heatherwick .

 = = Construction and funding = =

 The sculpture was constructed in Sheffield by Thomas Heatherwick Studio , Packman Lucas , Flint and Neill and Westbury Structures .

 It was approved at the start of 2003 , with the central core arriving in Manchester on 13 June 2004 .

 This was the largest load that could be transferred via road from the factory , and required a police escort .

 This central core was lifted into place in August 2004 , after which the 180 spikes could begin being attached .

 Early estimates had given an optimistic completion date of July 2003 , which contributed to the sculpture gaining the nickname G of the Bang .

 The official unveiling by Linford Christie took place on 12 January 2005 .

 Funding was sourced from a European Regional Development Fund contribution of £ 700 @ , @ 000 , the North West Development Agency , contributing £ 500 @ , @ 000 , and Manchester City Council providing £ 120 @ , @ 000 .

 = = Structural problems and legal action = =

 The tip of one of the 2 @.@ 1 m ( 6 @.@ 9 ft ) spikes detached and fell from the sculpture on 6 January 2005 , only six days before the official unveiling .

 After inspection , the event went ahead as planned .

 This consisted of retrofitting tip weights to 70 % of the spikes ' weights .

 Despite these modifications , B of the Bang remained fenced off , prompting a local newspaper campaign to ' Get It Sorted ' .

 In May 2006 a total of nine spikes were removed from the sculpture and taken away for metallurgical analysis , to discover the stresses being placed on the steel .

 It was announced in October 2007 that Manchester City Council were taking legal action against the makers of the sculpture , with the aim of completing the necessary repairs to the sculpture .

 The agreement was to pay the council £ 1.7 m in damages for breach of contract and negligence .

 = = Dismantling = =

 Acting on a report in January 2009 , the city council recommended that B of the Bang should be dismantled and placed in storage until funds could be raised for its safe reinstatement .

 The report recognised the sculpture 's aesthetic value for Manchester and Manchester City Council committed itself to working with the artist to reach a long @-@ term solution .

 One possibility involved the replacement of the steel spikes with alternatives made from carbon fibre , although the report underlined the necessity for extensive testing .

 Despite Gormley 's plea , removal of B of the Bang began in April 2009 .

 More substantial hoarding was erected around the site and demolition firm Connell Brothers Limited began removing the spikes with oxyacetylene cutting equipment .

 = Battle of the Hongorai River =

 The Battle of the Hongorai River took place during the Second World War and involved Australian , New Zealand and Japanese forces .

 Part of the wider Bougainville Campaign of the Pacific theatre , the battle was fought in the southern sector of Bougainville Island .

 Coming after the Battle of Slater 's Knoll in which a strong Japanese counterattack was defeated , the battle occurred in two distinct periods between 17 April and 22 May 1945 , as elements of the Australian 15th Brigade advanced south along the Buin Road .

 The initial phase saw the Australians advance towards the Hongorai River .

 Following the end of the early fighting , the Australian advance towards the main Japanese concentration at Buin continued as they struck out towards the Hari and Mivo Rivers .

 This continued until torrential rain and flooding brought the advance to a halt short of the objective , washing away many bridges and roads upon which the Australians relied for supplies .

 = = Background = =

 Japanese forces had landed on Bougainville in early 1942 , capturing it from the small force of Australians garrisoning the island .

 These bases also helped protect Rabaul , the major Japanese garrison and naval base in Papua New Guinea , and throughout 1943 , Allied planners determined that Bougainville was vital for neutralising the Japanese base around Rabaul .

 US Marines conducted an amphibious landing at Cape Torokina , on the western coast of the island , north of Empress Augusta Bay , in November 1943 .

 In March 1944 , the Japanese launched a heavy counter @-@ attack , which was turned back with heavy casualties .

 Australian forces began arriving on the island between November and December 1944 , initially establishing themselves around the US base at Torokina .

 In late March and early April 1945 , they had fought the Battle of Slater 's Knoll after which a brief lull followed as the Australians paused to shorten their supply lines .

 The Australian 3rd Division was then ordered to resume its advance south , being tasked with capturing the Hari River , while the Hongorai was also included as an " intermediate objective " .

 Japanese strength in the southern sector was estimated by the Australians at about 10 @ , @ 500 men , of which 2 @ , @ 300 were believed to be directly opposing the 3rd Division .

 Under the command of Brigadier Heathcote Hammer the 15th Brigade consisted of three infantry battalions as well as two troops of tanks from the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , engineers from the 15th Field Company , a battery of 155 @-@ mm guns from ' U ' Heavy Battery , field artillery from the 2nd Field Regiment , and a number of smaller support units .

 The 58th / 59th Infantry Battalion took over responsibility for Slater 's Knoll replacing the 25th Infantry Battalion while the 24th Infantry Battalion took up a position across the Buin Road .

 The Japanese forces opposing the Australians belonged to the 6th Division , under the command of Lieutenant General Tsutomu Akinaga .

 The division 's infantry had suffered heavily in the previous battle around Slater 's Knoll and as a consequence , several units had to be reorganized or amalgamated .

 The front line positions were assigned to the 6th Field Artillery Regiment , while the 13th Infantry Regiment was to hold five strongpoints to their rear along and astride the Buin Road , designated ' A ' through to ' E ' .

 The 6th Field and 4th Field Heavy Artillery Regiments both held strongpoints further back , designated ' F ' and ' G ' .

 The 23rd Infantry Regiment was placed in the rear , where it was being reconstituted following losses suffered during the attack on Slater 's Knoll .

 = = Battle = =

 Two days later , Hammer received the order to commence the advance towards the Hongorai from Savige , who offered him the support of the 29th Brigade as a mobile reserve in case of sudden counter @-@ attack .

 Supported by a troop of Matilda tanks from the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , an artillery barrage which fired over 700 shells , two infantry companies — ' C ' and ' D ' — from the 24th attacked the position while another — ' A ' Company — carried out a flanking manoeuvre to cut another track further north towards Kindara and Hatai .

 In support of ' A ' Company , Matilidas came forward and raked the jungle , hacking through the undergrowth to reveal several Japanese pillboxes , which were destroyed by the Australian armour .

 As night fell , ' C ' Company dug in before resuming the attack the next morning .

 Amidst heavy fighting , the Australians forced their way across the creek .

 Further patrols were carried out , as well as a number of ambushes , before the advance was resumed on 26 April .

 Further progress was made over the next week , but on 4 May the advance was slowed when they encountered a roadblock defended by a field gun along with a machine gun , mines and other improvised explosive devices .

 After this , the 15th Brigade 's engineer support were called upon to regularly carry out route clearance and proving operations as the Japanese became increasingly desperate to destroy the Australian armour , to the extent that they were prepared to sacrifice an artillery piece in order to lure the Australian tanks into a trap where they could be destroyed by mines .

 The Japanese began to adapt their tactics in other ways also .

 To negate the effectiveness of the Australian tanks , the Japanese began to position themselves off the roads , forcing the infantry to fight without their armoured support .

 Additionally , the Japanese began to concentrate their artillery with increasing accuracy upon the advancing infantry , which they kept under constant observation and fire .

 Here they had a number of encounters and suffered casualties due to their inexperience in patrolling , which resulted in them being ambushed .

 They also kept up a steady advance and eventually beat the main force in reaching , and crossing the river , arriving there on 6 May .

 Advancing with a tank troop in support , they came up against a concealed field gun defended by approximately 100 Japanese .

 Moving around the stricken tank , the second Matilda , armed with a howitzer , opened fire and destroyed the field gun before sweeping the Japanese defenders from the position .

 The fighting lasted for over two @-@ and @-@ a @-@ half hours , but when it was over the Australians remained in possession of the position having repulsed the attack .

 After this , the Australians were able to resume their advance to the river on 7 May without further opposition .

 Against this , the Japanese had lost at least 169 killed .

 = = = Crossing the Hongorai = = =

 Following the advance to the Hongorai , there was a pause of about a week as the Australians had to wait for roads to be improved and supplies to be brought up , before attempting to cross the Hongorai en masse .

 This allowed Savige to re @-@ evaluate the situation and to issue new orders for the advance towards the Hari and Mivo Rivers .

 As a part of these , the 24th Infantry Battalion sent a company across the Hongorai and subsequently located a strong Japanese position on a feature that became known as Egan 's Ridge , which , due to its location , commanded the main Australian axis of advance .

 Preliminary moves began before this , and on 15 May a platoon from the 24th Infantry Battalion along with two tanks attempted to carry out an attack on Egan 's Ridge .

 After one of the tanks was held up and knocked out by a Japanese field gun , they were forced to withdraw .

 During this period , the New Zealanders flew 381 sorties , while artillery and mortars fired " thousands of rounds " .

 Crossing 500 yd ( 460 m ) north of the ford , the centre company carried out an attack along the far bank of the river without its armoured support which had been unable to negotiate the crossing .

 Finally , a company from the 24th Infantry Battalion was able to move on to the high ground on Egan 's Ridge , which they found to be heavily mined and booby trapped .

 Engineers and assault pioneers were called up to clear the feature .

 On the right flank , the 58th / 59th Infantry Battalion carried out a wide flanking move along a track that had been carved out of the west bank of the Hongorai by bulldozer .

 Beginning their move two days earlier , a number of patrols had had contacts with the Japanese .

 The following day , the battalion left the line of departure and began to advance on its primary objective , which it reached in the early afternoon despite being held up while the tanks attempted to affect a creek crossing , and further delayed by stiff resistance .

 The last remaining defensive location before the Hongorai was Egan 's Ridge , where the Japanese were sheltering in tunnels .

 A heavy aerial and artillery bombardment devastated the position and forced them to abandon the ridge .

 It was subsequently occupied by a company of Australian infantry .

 Within a short period of time the Buin Road was subsequently opened , providing the Australians with the means with which to bring up supplies for the next stage of the campaign , being the advance to the Hari , Mobiai , and Mivo Rivers .

 = = Aftermath = =

 During the course of the fighting around the Hongorai , the Australians lost 38 men killed and 159 wounded , while the Japanese lost at least 275 men killed .

 Following the battle , the Australians continued their advance towards Buin at the southern end of the island .

 Beyond the river , the Japanese resolved to hold the food growing areas in order to protect their precarious food supply , and they consequently occupied a series of deep entrenchments .

 These were steadily reduced with airstrikes and artillery , and the 15th Brigade subsequently crossed Mobiai River before being relieved by Brigadier Noel Simpson 's 29th Brigade in early July .

 The height of the river rose 2 metres ( 6 @.@ 6 ft ) .

 The Buin Road was reduced , in the words of Gavin Long , " to a sea of mud " and many of the bridges upon which the Australian supply system was dependent were washed away .

 This rendered large @-@ scale offensive infantry operations impossible and as the situation worsened for a period of time the Australians even ceased patrolling operations across the Mivo ; meanwhile , the Japanese continued to harass the Australians , probing their positions and setting mines and traps , targeting the Australian line of communications .

 Australian patrols were resumed in late July and continued into August .

 These attacks proved very costly , particularly amongst the Australian engineers that were tasked with rebuilding the bridges and roads that had been destroyed in the flooding .

 Fighting in the northern sector continued during this time also , and although preparations in the south for the final advance towards Buin continued into August , combat operations on the island ceased as the war came to an end before these were completed .

 Following the end of the war , the Australian Army awarded three battle honours for the fighting around the Hongorai River .

 The 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , and the 9th , 24th , 57th / 60th and 58th / 59th Infantry Battalions received the battle honour " Hongorai River " . A second battle honour — " Egan 's Ridge – Hongorai Ford " — was also awarded to the 2 / 4th Armoured Regiment , and the 24th and 58th / 59th Infantry Battalions for the second stage of the fighting , while the 57th / 60th Infantry Battalion received the separate battle honour of " Commando Road " for this period .

 = Sonic the Hedgehog ( 1991 video game ) =

 The game features an anthropomorphic hedgehog named Sonic in a quest to defeat Dr. Robotnik , a scientist who has imprisoned animals in robots and stolen the magical Chaos Emeralds .

 Sonic the Hedgehog 's gameplay involves collecting rings as a form of health and a simple control scheme , with jumping and attacking controlled by a single button .

 The game 's development began in 1990 , when Sega ordered its AM8 development team to create a game featuring a mascot for the company .

 After considering a number of suggestions , the developers decided on a blue hedgehog with spikes along his head and spine and renamed themselves " Sonic Team " to match their character .

 Sonic the Hedgehog , designed for fast gameplay , was influenced by the games of Super Mario series creator , Shigeru Miyamoto .

 Sonic the Hedgehog uses a novel technique that allows Sonic 's sprite to roll along curved scenery , which originated in a tech demo created by the game 's programmer , Yuji Naka .

 The game was well received by critics , who praised its visuals , music , and speed of gameplay .

 The game was also commercially successful , establishing the Genesis as a key player in the 16 @-@ bit era and allowing it to compete with Nintendo and their Super NES console .

 It has been ported a number of times , and inspired several clones , a successful franchise , and adaptations by other media .

 = = Plot = =

 The player controls Sonic , who aims to halt Robotnik 's plans by freeing his animal friends and collecting the emeralds himself .

 If the player collects all the Chaos Emeralds and completes the game , a reward ending sequence is shown .

 If all the emeralds are not collected , Robotnik taunts the player while juggling the Chaos Emeralds instead .

 = = Gameplay = =

 The levels contain hazards in the form of robots ( " badniks " in the Western game manuals ) inside of which Dr. Robotnik has trapped animals .

 The player must avoid rows of sharp spikes , falling into bottomless pits , being crushed by moving walls or platforms , and drowning ( which can be avoided by breathing air bubbles periodically released from vents ) .

 Sonic 's main attack is his spin , where he curls into a ball and rotates rapidly ( damaging enemies and some obstacles ) .

 This can be performed by jumping in the air or rolling on the ground .

 Scattered around each level map are gold rings , and collecting 100 rings rewards the player with an extra life .

 If Sonic is hit without any rings , he loses a life .

 Although shields and temporary invincibility may be collected to provide additional protection , certain hazards ( such as drowning , being crushed , falling down a bottomless pit or running out of time ) will cost Sonic a life regardless of rings or other protection .

 A player must navigate through each zone ( subdivided into three acts ) to progress .

 At the end of each zone 's third act , the player confronts Dr. Robotnik ( who pilots a different vehicle each time ) in a boss fight .

 After the sixth zone , the player continues directly to the Final Zone for a last encounter with Robotnik .

 The player begins with three lives ( power @-@ ups and rings add more ) , which are lost when Sonic collides with hazardous enemies ( or objects ) without rings , falls off @-@ screen or exceeds an act 's ten @-@ minute time limit .

 Lampposts acting as checkpoints allow Sonic to return to the most @-@ recently activated post when he loses a life .

 If he loses a life as a result of time running out but has another life , the timer will reset to 0 : 00 when he returns to the checkpoint .

 In each of six Special Stages , Sonic bounces off the bumpers and walls of a rotating maze in spin attack .

 Although the player earns a continue with each 50 rings found , their main goal is to obtain the Chaos Emerald at the end of the maze without colliding with a " goal block " ( which ends the level ) .

 = = Development = =

 = = = Background and character design = = =

 In 1990 , Sega ordered its in @-@ house development studio , AM8 , to develop a game featuring a mascot for the company .

 This was a position already held by the character Alex Kidd , but he was considered similar to Mario and deemed unsatisfactory ;

 Sega president Hayao Nakayama wanted a character as iconic as Mickey Mouse .

 Although the company had some success with Genesis ports of its arcade titles , it knew this would not be enough .

 AM8 developed ideas for characters , an engine , and gameplay mechanics .

 Development emphasized speed , so AM8 eliminated character designs not associated with fast animals , as well as fast creatures like kangaroos and squirrels .

 One idea , a rabbit able to grasp objects with prehensile ears , showed promise at first but was too complex for the available hardware .

 The team narrowed its search to animals that can roll into a ball , their idea for an attacking move .

 Designers then realized that this would not seem aggressive enough , so they focused on two animals with spikes : armadillos and hedgehogs .

 The hedgehog character , first proposed by Naoto Ohshima , prevailed , although the armadillo would later become the basis for Mighty the Armadillo ( who first appeared in 1993 's SegaSonic the Hedgehog ) .

 Ohshima has admitted since that he created Sonic 's basic design by combining Felix the Cat 's head with Mickey Mouse 's body .

 The new character was originally named " Mr. Needlemouse " , but the eight @-@ member AM8 changed his name to " Sonic " and their studios to Sonic Team .

 Ideas proposed to flesh out the character included placing him in a rock band , giving him vampire fangs , and giving him a human girlfriend named Madonna , but Sega of America scrapped these ideas to keep his identity simple .

 The antagonist ended up being named " Dr. Eggman " in Japan and " Dr. Robotnik " in other regions as a result of a dispute between Sega 's American and Japanese divisions .

 = = = Programming and prototyping = = =

 With a satisfying protagonist completed , Sega turned to esteemed programmer Yuji Naka , who had impressed them through his work on Phantasy Star and the Genesis port of Ghouls ' n Ghosts .

 The gameplay originated with a tech demo by Naka , who developed an algorithm allowing a sprite to move smoothly on a curve by determining its position with a dot matrix .

 Yasuhara originally intended to work on the game for three months due to the delay of his planned move to the United States by the outbreak of the Gulf War , but was engrossed in the project for nearly a year .

 His designs for levels were intended to attract both hardcore and casual gamers by integrating occasional challenging set pieces into the mostly accessible level design .

 The game 's color scheme was influenced by the work of pop artist Eizin Suzuki , and the aesthetics of Green Hill were influenced by the geography of California .

 In designing the game mechanics , Naka was inspired by Shigeru Miyamoto , whose games he had enjoyed playing years earlier .

 Admiring the simplicity of Miyamoto 's mechanics in complex environments , Naka decided that Sonic would be controlled with only a directional pad for movement and a single button for jumping .

 He also wanted his creation to be more action @-@ oriented than the Mario series ; while playing Super Mario Bros . , he had wondered why the levels could not be cleared more quickly .

 Due to the need to demonstrate the Genesis ' technological prowess , the developing game underwent extensive testing and redesign , a process taking over six months .

 The team intended to add a two @-@ player mode displayed via split @-@ screen , but Naka 's programming knowledge was insufficient to implement this feature .

 However , such a mode would later appear in sequel Sonic the Hedgehog 2 ( 1992 ) , where the second player would control Sonic 's best friend Miles " Tails " Prower .

 Naka , Oshima , and Yasuhara worked 19 hours a day on the project for several months .

 Naka 's relationship with Sega of Japan was tenuous during this time ; he received little credit for his involvement in the game .

 He left the company shortly after the game 's release , although Sega of America hired him later .

 Before leaving , however , he defied Sega of Japan 's prohibition of developer credits by displaying a few names in black text on a black background , identifiable only by looking at the game 's code .

 = = = Music = = =

 The music for Sonic the Hedgehog was composed and produced by Masato Nakamura , bassist and lead songwriter of the J @-@ pop band Dreams Come True .

 The game uses onboard Yamaha YM2612 and SN76489 programmable sound generators to produce a variety of stereo sound effects and music .

 The playable Vector became a recurring character in the series , also appearing in Knuckles ' Chaotix , Sonic Heroes , and Sonic Free Riders .

 The development schedule scrapped the feature , and Yuji Naka replaced the test with the " Se @-@ ga ! " chant used in TV commercials ( which reportedly used one @-@ eighth of the memory of the four @-@ megabit cartridge ) .

 The first disc features original tracks from both games , the second contains Masato Nakamura 's demo recordings and the third comprises songs by Dreams Come True and their Akon remixes .

 = = = Packaging and release = = =

 Sega of America packaged it with American Genesis consoles , replacing Altered Beast .

 Genesis owners who bought their consoles before the switch could request free copies of Sonic the Hedgehog by mail .

 Sega of America created a large @-@ scale marketing campaign to promote the game and Sonic as a mascot for the company .

 = = Alternate versions and ports = =

 = = = 8 @-@ bit version = = =

 A version of Sonic the Hedgehog was developed by Ancient and released in 1991 for Sega 's 8 @-@ bit consoles , the Master System and Game Gear .

 The game has a different soundtrack , composed by chiptune musician Yuzo Koshiro and including his compositions and adaptations of music from the 16 @-@ bit version .

 It was the final game released for the Master System in North America .

 It included several new features , such as the ability to save game progress , a level select option , and an Anniversary Mode with the Spin Dash move ( not originally implemented until Sonic the Hedgehog 2 ) .

 Its screen is slightly zoomed in , and adapted to the GBA 's widescreen aspect ratio .

 = = = Compilation releases = = =

 It was part of the Wii Virtual Console at the service 's 2006 introduction , and was released for the Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network shortly afterwards .

 Sonic the Hedgehog became available on GameTap in September 2009 .

 In October 2010 , it was released as a Microsoft Windows download which was ported to Steam .

 The game was ported to two online app services ( Google Play and the Amazon Appstore ) in December 2012 .

 A remastered mobile port , created using Christian Whitehead 's Retro Engine previously used in the 2011 rerelease of Sonic CD , was released on iOS , replacing the original port , on May 15 , 2013 with an Android version released the following day .

 The port features widescreen graphics , the optional ability to spin dash , a time attack mode , and the unlockable option to play as Tails or Knuckles the Echidna .

 = = Reception = =

 The game rivaled the Mario series , particularly Super Mario World ( which was recently released for Genesis rival Super Nintendo Entertainment System ) .

 Paul Rand of Computer and Video Games compared the two in depth and characterized Sonic the Hedgehog as being faster , with brighter colors , and Super Mario World as having more " depth of play " .

 Reviewers noted the game 's colorful , detailed graphics .

 Rand called its color scheme " lively , but never garish " , praising the interaction of color with detail in the sprites , backgrounds , and animations and describing its graphics as the best available for the Genesis .

 Reviewer Boogie Man of Game

 Pro called the intricate backgrounds " eye @-@ popping " and " gorgeous " , which was echoed by Mean Machines .

 Critics cited the fast gameplay , unprecedented in platformers .

 The game 's difficulty was disputed , described as " impossible " by Rand and " average " by EGM .

 Rand said about the gameplay in general that it " plays like a dream " ; according to GameZone it would enchant players for hours , and Boogie Man praised Sonic Team 's ability to provide an engaging experience primarily from running and jumping .

 Although EGM , Dragon , and Paul of Mean Machines praised the level design ( especially the hidden rooms ) , Paul found losing all of one 's rings frustrating .

 Sonic the Hedgehog has maintained its popularity , appearing on lists of the greatest video games of all time .

 Few people realize how difficult it was to create Sonic 's graphics engine , which allowed for the incredible rate of speed the game 's known for .

 Mega ranked the game its third @-@ favorite Genesis title , and in 2001 Game Informer called it the 24th @-@ greatest game of all time .

 = = Legacy = =

 = = = Effect on the industry = = =

 Sonic the Hedgehog added speed and momentum @-@ based physics to the standard platform formula .

 Set @-@ pieces and mechanics introduced by the game ( such as loops , springs , and acceleration pads ) have appeared in other games and become associated with the Sonic series .

 This carried into the PlayStation era with games like Punky Skunk and Crash Bandicoot .

 = = = Sequels and other media = = =

 The game 's success led Sega to develop an extensive media franchise .

 A 1992 sequel , Sonic the Hedgehog 2 , gave Sonic a best friend ( and sidekick ) named Miles " Tails " Prower and continued the fight against Dr. Robotnik .

 Sonic has generated dozens of additional games and a large cast of recurring characters ( keeping Sonic and Robotnik as mainstays ) , surviving the end of Sega console manufacturing after the Dreamcast .

 The series has ventured from platformers to fighting , racing , role @-@ playing , and sports games , and has expanded into anime and manga , cartoons and comic books , novels , and toys .

 Sonic the Hedgehog has become one of the best @-@ selling video game franchises of all time , with over 150 million copies sold by May 2014 .

 = The Same Old Story =

 The episode was written by executive producer Jeff Pinkner and co @-@ creators J. J. Abrams , Alex Kurtzman , and Roberto Orci .

 When developing the series , they sought to find a medium between serialized drama and the crime procedural .

 "

 It was directed by Paul A. Edwards .

 They tie the case to the murders of young women , who have all had their pituitary glands removed .

 It is revealed that Dr. Claus Penrose ( Mark Blum ) , an expert in progeria , is working to help his son Christopher ( Derek Cecil ) stay alive , as he suffers from rapid aging syndrome .

 An estimated 13 @.@ 272 million viewers watched the episode , a 45 percent increase from the series premiere .

 The episode received mixed reviews from television critics – reviewers thought it was an improvement from the previous episode but faulted it for containing plot contrivances .

 = = Plot = =

 Olivia Dunham ( Anna Torv ) , Peter Bishop ( Joshua Jackson ) , and Walter Bishop ( John Noble ) , new members of the Fringe division , are called to investigate by division head Phillip Broyles ( Lance Reddick ) , believing the case to be part of " The Pattern " , a string of mysterious incidents .

 The woman is identified as having recently left a local motel , and Olivia finds evidence that points to a past serial murder case she and her former partner John Scott were not able to solve .

 Olivia explains to Peter that their murderer would paralyze his victims , young women , then make an incision along their face to extract a piece of brain material , killing the victim in the process .

 Walter takes both corpses back to his lab and determines that the woman had only been pregnant minutes before giving birth , her child having accelerated aging disease .

 Walter is reminded of having previously done work in this field , and remembers where he stashed his car that contains the related files .

 Once they are retrieved , Olivia makes a connection to the pituitary gland which controls growth in humans , and informs Charlie Francis ( Kirk Acevedo ) to monitor recent cases where the victims ' pituitary gland has been removed .

 Unseen by the Fringe division , Dr. Penrose visits an abandoned warehouse and meets the murderer , Christopher ( Derek Cecil ) , his son , who suffers from rapid aging syndrome .

 Penrose warns Christopher to be careful and that they only need one more woman to complete the process .

 By this time , Charlie has found a recent murder victim killed in the same fashion as Olivia 's serial murderer .

 At Walter 's lab , they identify the pituitary gland has been removed .

 They rationalize the murderer must extract hormones from the glands to slow down his own aging process .

 Walter hypothesizes they can discover the location of the crime by looking at the images left in the woman 's optical nerves induced by the paralyzing sedative .

 Borrowing an electronic pulse camera from Massive Dynamic , they discover the image of a suspension bridge near Stoughton and identify the likely location from which it was viewed — the same warehouse that Dr. Penrose visited .

 The FBI converge on the building , and Olivia and Peter find Penrose about to cut into another victim .

 As they wrap up the case , Olivia , Peter , and Walter complete forms to finalize their position in the Fringe division .

 When Peter is out of earshot , Walter learns from Olivia that the FBI medical files on Peter 's childhood are void of any details .

 = = Production = =

 Co @-@ creators J. J. Abrams , Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci , and executive producer Jeff Pinkner wrote the episode .

 Paul A. Edwards served as the director , his first such credit for the series .

 They wanted to find a balance between standalone stories and serialized content , and studied procedural dramas such as Law and Order and CSI : Crime Scene Investigation for inspiration .

 For the scene in which they remove the victim 's eyeball , the special effects crew created a mold based on actress Elizabeth Stanley 's head .

 "

 The prop department rigged a weapon which they called a " photon gun " ; according to prop master Peter Gelfman , this gun was based on real devices employed in airport security that look through people 's clothing for concealed weapons .

 " The Same Old Story " featured guest appearances by actors Derek Cecil as Christopher Penrose and Mark Blum as his father , Dr. Claus Penrose .

 = = Reception = =

 = = = Ratings = = =

 " The Same Old Story " was watched by 13 @.@ 272 million viewers in the United States , a 45 percent increase of four million from the pilot .

 Fox claimed that this ratings improvement was the best for any new network drama series in over five years .

 Its high @-@ rated lead @-@ in , House , helped boost Fringe 's ratings for the night , as 93 percent of House 's total audience and 95 percent of 18 - to 49 @-@ year @-@ olds stayed to watch Fringe .

 = = = Reviews = = =

 " The Same Old Story " received mixed reviews from television critics .

 TV Squad writer Jane Boursaw thought the episode seemed " all over the place " , and wasn 't sure what to think .

 She stated the two most interesting parts of the episode were when Walter removed the girl 's eye in order to identity her killer , and the cliffhanger at the very end , when Walter states "

 The A.V. Club critic Noel Murray gave the episode a C + , while Television Without Pity graded it with a B.

 Josh Jackson of Paste Magazine disliked the " deus ex machina " aspects that " neatly solved the puzzles of the first two episodes " , and also criticized perceived " plot contrivances " like how the serial murderer immediately began aging once interrupted from killing his last victim .

 Fringe 's second episode represents all that is holy about genre programming without sacrificing any of Fringe 's eleven @-@ herbs and spices .

 In fact , the subtle framework of what makes Fringe not X @-@ Files is even better defined in the first weekly @-@ episode .

 "

 = Randy Blythe manslaughter case =

 When the band returned to the Czech Republic for another concert two years later , its vocalist Randy Blythe was arrested , charged with causing Nosek 's death , and remanded in custody for five weeks .

 According to a verdict delivered by the Municipal Court in Prague on March 5 , 2013 , it was proven that Blythe had thrown Nosek offstage and thus had moral responsibility for his death .

 The acquittal was upheld by the Prague High Court on June 5 , 2013 .

 = = 2010 concert incident = =

 The newspaper went on to report that the fan tried to climb onstage and was thrown by the singer from the stage , falling backwards directly on his head .

 A report about the concert at issue released on May 26 , 2010 by topzine .cz stated that " one of the things that was unexpected was the behavior of the singer Randall Blythe , who on a few occasions struck some fans in a relatively brutal way off the stage . "

 The article also contains pictures , one of them showing Blythe holding a fan down on the ground .

 net alleged that " Randy in a totally uncompromising way took down an impertinent fan , who has climbed the podium several times .

 " However , it was revealed during the trial that it was a different fan who previously got into contact with Blythe than Nosek .

 I think I would 've noticed something like that considering the Dime thing . "

 According to Blythe 's attorney Martin Radvan , the police launched an investigation following the death of Nosek , about a month after the concert and following a coma .

 = = Arrest and charges = =

 On June 27 , 2012 , Blythe was arrested by the Czech police on suspicion of manslaughter .

 Lamb of God was prepared to play in Prague on June 28 , 2012 , but Blythe 's arrest upon arrival at Ruzyně Airport caused the concert to be canceled .

 A police spokesperson stated on June 29 , 2012 that the police had formally charged Blythe under section 146 ( 4 ) of the Czech Criminal Code , which contains intentional infliction of bodily harm resulting in death ( i.e. manslaughter ) .

 He faced 5 – 10 years of imprisonment if found guilty .

 Randy 's brother Mark Blythe said the charge was " bogus and outrageous and will be dropped immediately .

 "

 = = Court remand and bail = =

 On June 30 , 2012 , the State Attorney brought a motion to remand Blythe in pre @-@ trial detention , as he considered Blythe a flight risk .

 Bail was deposited in the court 's bank account on mid @-@ day of July 3 , 2012 .

 After this , the State Attorney had three working days to either accept the bail or to challenge it by filing a complaint .

 On July 17 , 2012 , Prague Municipal Court 's panel of three judges headed by judge Luboš Vrba overturned the bail decision by doubling the bail amount to CZK 8 million ( ~ US $ 400 @ , @ 000 ) .

 After this , the State Attorney challenged the conditions of release , trying to achieve that the bail is subject to Blythe staying in the country and / or Blythe having to report at a given police station regularly until the criminal proceedings are finished .

 On August 2 , 2012 , the appellate court rejected the State Attorney 's second complaint and ordered Blythe 's immediate release .

 Blythe left the Czech Republic the next day , claiming in an interview with TV Nova that he would return for the trial .

 = = Indictment and trial = =

 On November 13 , 2012 , the spokesperson of the Prague State Attorney 's Office announced that the police had formally closed their investigation and proposed to the State Attorney to indict Blythe .

 After reviewing the case file , the State Attorney indicted Blythe on the aforementioned charges on November 30 , 2012 .

 Two weeks later , a judge set the trial to commence on February 4 , 2013 , with a plan to conduct the hearings in four consecutive days .

 Blythe was summoned to attend the hearing in person .

 The case was heard by a panel of the Prague Municipal Court , consisting of presiding professional judge Tomáš Kubovec and two lay judges .

 Trials in the Czech Republic are public .

 In general , the court is bound to decide on the deed as stated in the indictment ; however , it is not bound by its legal assessment by the State Attorney .

 Both the defendant and the State Attorney may appeal the decision ; the appeal would be heard by a panel of the Prague High Court , consisting of three professional judges .

 A decision of second instance court is final and enforceable .

 Indictment against Blythe was brought by State Attorney Vladimír Mužík .

 He also tried a case against Andranik Soghojan , an alleged head of Russian mafia , requesting 25 years in prison for ordering a murder .

 Another of Mužík 's murder cases which ended in acquittal due to insufficient evidence is that of Miroslav Rus , who was indicted in connection with disappearance of Miroslav Kříž , a vice @-@ chairman of the Czech Football Association .

 = = = Defense lawyers = = =

 Randy Blythe was represented by Prague lawyers Martin Radvan and Vladimír Jablonský .

 Radvan studied law at the Faculty of Law of Charles University and at the New York University .

 From 1990 to 1992 , he served as external advisor of the then Prime Minister Marián Čalfa .

 A former partner at Baker & McKenzie , Radvan established Radvan & Co. in 1996 .

 He is also a member of board of directors of Forum 2000 .

 Jablonský gained fame as attorney of Yekta Uzunoglu , a Kurdish national who was first charged in 1994 with preparing to commit three murders and committing blackmail and torture .

 The court held that although the crimes did take place , there is no evidence that Uzunoglu took part in it .

 He was also defending judge Pavel Nagy , who was indicted of accepting a bribe .

 The proceedings ended with Nagy being found insane and criminally not liable .

 Jablonský also acted as a defense attorney in the case of a hairdresser of Czech VIPs indicted on charges of rape and torture .

 During the proceedings , the judge sent Jablonský to face the disciplinary commission of the Czech bar association for what he perceived as " behaviour bordering on contempt " .

 The trial started on February 4 , 2013 .

 Blythe testified that when he wanted to see the club before the concert , Lamb of God 's technician told him that the club was terrible and messy .

 Blythe said that people could easily reach the band members or climb up to the stage .

 Blythe testified that during the first attempt , Pořádek rushed the stage and started waving his arms before stage diving .

 The second time , he tried to put his arms around Blythe in an attempt to hug him .

 He then led the fan by his hair to the edge of the stage , where the fan jumped off .

 It was only after watching a video of the incident that Blythe found out that a security officer was actually pushing the fan from back .

 Blythe further said that he saw Pořádek trying to reach the stage yet again before finally being stopped by security .

 Later , when another fan tried to climb the stage , Blythe thought that it was Pořádek again .

 Blythe testified that he approached the fan and pushed him with both hands out of the stage in the belief that the crowd would catch him , which it did not .

 Jiří Choroš , author of video which caught the previous incidents with Pořádek , testified that the fan was for a moment lying on the ground with nobody helping him .

 Blythe further commented that he saw the fan get up and that other fans showed him thumbs up .

 Blythe insisted that he never saw Nosek nor came into contact with him .

 Chris Adler , Lamb of God 's drummer , testified that he had not seen anything from the back of the stage and further proclaimed that Blythe 's aggressiveness is only a stage act .

 The defense also presented videos from various Lamb of God concerts in order to demonstrate that metal music is very energetic and that Blythe regularly cheers to the crowd , but not to encourage people to climb the stage .

 Blythe also alleged that after learning about Nosek 's death , he had written a letter to the Nosek family , in which he offered help and a meeting in @-@ person .

 Daniel Nosek 's father , however , testified that the family has not been contacted by anyone from the band nor by the defense team .

 Nosek 's father confirmed that his son had been healthy up until the day of the incident .

 The Nosek family 's representative brought a claim for damages in the amount of CZK 10 @ , @ 000 @ , @ 000 ( approx .

 US $ 530 @ , @ 000 ) .

 Altogether , eight witnesses delivered their testimonies on February 5 , 2013 .

 Among them were friends of Daniel Nosek .

 Nosek and three friends had come to attend the concert from Vrchlabí , a town in mountains some 130 kilometres ( 81 mi ) northwest of Prague .

 They described Nosek as a huge fan of Lamb of God who had been able to secure an autograph from a guitar player before the concert had started .

 He said he was " 100 % sure Blythe pushed Nosek with both hands .

 "

 He further said that Blythe 's behavior deviated from all the concerts he had attended in the past , commenting that Blythe was visibly furious .

 Jebavý corroborated Blythe 's testimony that Blythe asked " Are you okay ?

 " after Nosek fell and that the crowd gave him a positive reply .

 Nosek 's other friend Ondřej Vlach testified that Nosek 's fall happened in a break between the end of concert and the encore .

 Nosek climbed the stage together with another fan as the band members were leaving to go backstage .

 According to him , Blythe ran into the two fans and pushed them both off .

 While the other fan was caught by a couple of fans remaining under the stage , Nosek fell directly on the ground .

 According to Vlach , there were fewer fans in front of the stage due to the break .

 Vlach further testified that after the fall , Nosek went to sit on a bench , where he was fetched a water bottle .

 Vlach said that he understood Blythe 's gesture in the break as an invitation to the stage .

 Another person to testify was Robert Havelka , who worked as a security guard the night of the incident .

 Havelka said that the guardrail was too close to the stage , but not so close as to make a platform for climbing the stage .

 He testified that he pulled one person off the stage and that another person fell off before he could be secured .

 Blythe 's defense team attacked differences between the testimonies the witnesses gave after the incident in 2010 and at the court .

 Blythe also argued that video evidence shown in court refuted claims about his aggressive behavior .

 Milan Pořádek , the fan whom Blythe admitted to shoving off the stage , testified on the third day of the trial .

 Pořádek said he climbed the stage twice in order to stage dive ; he changed his mind during the third attempt to get on stage .

 He commented that he grasped the fact that he was not wanted on stage .

 Another witness who had attended the concert at the rear of the crowd testified that Blythe 's behavior was standard to metal concerts , saying that metal bands always put on angry and tough acts and the concert at issue was no exception .

 She said that it was evident that Blythe did not want any fans on the stage .

 Neither the two nor any other witness who took the stand that day gave a testimony as to the moment of Nosek 's fall at the end of the concert .

 The judge also read a sworn statement from Abaton 's former producer , who stated that she had not known about the incident .

 She was aware that an ambulance was called that evening , but learned about the reasons for that only later , during the police investigation .

 Randy Blythe was called again to the stand that day .

 The judge first alerted him that he had the right to remain silent and can deny answering his questions .

 Blythe responded by saying : "

 Also that day , expert medical witness Michal Pogoši took the stand .

 According to The Prague Post , Pogoši testified that Nosek 's cause of death was pneumonia resulting from a blow to the brainstem .

 Since this hospital did not have a specialized neurology department , Nosek was transferred to another hospital after the diagnosis .

 There , Nosek underwent two operations , first to tend to the injury and second to reduce pressure on brain by removing some bone .

 Finally , defense asked for adjournment as a key witness fell ill .

 Blythe committed to return when the trial resumed .

 On February 7 , 2013 , only one witness took the stand before the hearing was adjourned .

 He also said that each time somebody got on the stage , Blythe demonstrated that they were not allowed there .

 Havlena testified that he saw how a fan tried to reach the stage three times and that as he was preparing to stage dive , somebody aided his fall from behind .

 He had not seen anybody fall directly on the ground .

 Blythe returned to attend the hearings in person , even though the presiding judge had told him that at this point they may be undertaken in his absence .

 The two expert witnesses agreed that Blythe is not aggressive ; nevertheless , he may have issues with controlling his emotions under stress .

 The court further heard testimonies from two eyewitnesses .

 One of them was a bodyguard who was present at the concert but did not see the fall .

 He testified that when by the exit , he saw two men taking a third man out of the building to fresh air .

 He said that he was told by them that the person fell off the stage .

 The ambulance arrived 5 – 10 minutes later .

 She testified that Nosek fell backwards .

 Another attendee of the concert who took the stand that day did not recall seeing any fall by the end of the concert .

 The State Attorney immediately attacked this testimony , claiming that the expert witness omitted the conditions at the place and time , as well as some of the eyewitness testimonies , according to which Nosek fell onto his back from the beginning and did not turn during the fall .

 The presiding judge agreed with the State Attorney on some of his points .

 He further added that Daniel had died on his father 's birthday , and his mother has consequently become a psychiatry patient unable to work .

 = = = First instance verdict = = =

 Consequently , the court dismissed the damages claim and ordered the return of Blythe 's bail .

 The court held that it was proven that Blythe had thrown Nosek off the stage .

 According to the court , the largest part of the blame lies with the promoters and security members .

 Judge Kubovec further reproached Blythe for not having met with the Nosek family .

 The State Attorney announced that he would appeal the verdict .

 = = = Appeals verdict = = =

 The hearing took place in Blythe 's absence .

 Blythe 's acquittal was upheld by the panel on June 5 , 2013 .

 In 2015 Blythe demanded ca CZK 15 millions for damages but the Municipal Court for Prague 2 dismissed the suit .

 = = Reaction = =

 In reaction to the arrest and detention , a fan created a petition at the official White House petition site .

 By the time Blythe was released on bail , it gathered over 27 @ , @ 500 signatures .

 On July 7 , 2012 , there was a vigil organized in Lamb of God 's hometown of Richmond , Virginia , by a friend of Blythe 's .

 I don ’ t think it was right for him to be locked up ....

 In a post to his blog , Blythe explained that he met the Nosek family in private after the trial , and promised them to be " a spokesperson for safer shows " .

 He emphasized that the family never attacked him and " just wanted to know the truth of what had happened to their son " .

 = U.S. Route 2 in Michigan =

 US Highway 2 ( US 2 ) is a component of the United States Numbered Highway System that connects Everett , Washington , to the Upper Peninsula ( UP ) of the US state of Michigan , with a separate segment that runs from Rouses Point , New York , to Houlton , Maine .

 Two sections of the roadway are included as part of the Great Lakes Circle Tours , and other segments are listed as state @-@ designated Pure Michigan Byways .

 The highway runs through rural sections of the UP , passing through two national and two state forests in the process .

 The route of what became US 2 was used as part of two Indian trails before European settlers came to the UP , and as part of the Michigan segments of the Theodore Roosevelt International Highway and the King 's International Highway auto trails in the early 20th century .

 The state later included these trails as part of M ‑ 12 when the first state highway trunklines were designated in 1919 .

 Most of M ‑ 12 was redesignated as part of US 2 when the US Highway System was created on November 11 , 1926 .

 Since the 1930s , several changes have reshaped the highway 's routing through the UP .

 One such alteration eventually created a business loop that connected across the state line with Hurley , Wisconsin , and others pushed an originally inland routing of US 2 closer to the Lake Michigan shoreline .

 = = Route description = =

 The roadway plays " an important role in the transportation of goods across the northern tier of states in the Midwest " , and is listed on the National Highway System ( NHS ) for its entire length .

 The NHS is a network of roadways important to the country 's economy , defense , and mobility .

 Together with M ‑ 28 , US 2 is part of a pair of primary trunklines that bridge the eastern and western sides of the UP .

 The 305 @.@ 151 miles ( 491 @.@ 093 km ) of roadway in Michigan is divided into a 109 @.@ 177 @-@ mile ( 175 @.@ 703 km ) western segment and a 195 @.@ 974 @-@ mile ( 315 @.@ 390 km ) eastern segment , interrupted by a section that runs for 14 @.@ 460 miles ( 23 @.@ 271 km ) in the state of Wisconsin .

 The highway crosses the river into Gogebic County and passes a welcome center on the way into a commercial district north of downtown .

 Running along Cloverland Drive , US 2 meets its only business route in Michigan at Douglas Boulevard .

 The Wisconsin Department of Transportation has removed the signage on their side of the border , which reduced the loop to a business spur that ends at the state line .

 US 2 continues eastward through UP woodlands to the city of Bessemer .

 While bypassing the community of Ramsay , the highway crosses a branch of the Black River .

 The roadway enters Wakefield on the south side of Sunday Lake , meeting M ‑ 28 at a stoplight in town .

 As the US Highway leaves Wakefield , it turns southeasterly through the Ottawa National Forest , crossing Jackson Creek and two branches of the Presque Isle River .

 US 2 and M ‑ 64 merge and run concurrently over the second branch of the Presque Isle in the community of Marenisco .

 This concurrency has the lowest traffic volume along the entire length of the highway within the state ; in 2010 the Michigan Department of Transportation ( MDOT ) recorded a daily average usage along the stretch of 770 vehicles , compared to the overall average of 5 @ , @ 188 vehicles for the highway .

 At the end of the concurrency , M ‑ 64 turns northerly to run along Lake Gogebic .

 The highway continues parallel to the state line from the Marensico area through the national forest toward Watersmeet .

 That unincorporated community is the home of the Watersmeet High School Nimrods , the basketball team featured on a series of ESPN commercials and a documentary series on the Sundance Channel .

 The highway travels southeasterly from Watersmeet around the many lakes and streams in the area and crosses into rural Iron County .

 US 2 intersects Federal Forest Highway 16 ( FFH 16 ) near Golden Lake in Stambaugh Township in the middle of the national forest .

 The trunkline then runs along the Iron River as it approaches the city of the same name and meets M ‑ 73 .

 In town , US 2 intersects M ‑ 189 before crossing the river and turning northeast out of the city .

 US 2 leaves the Ottawa National Forest at Iron River , and the highway continues eastward through forest lands near several small lakes to Crystal Falls , the county seat of Iron County .

 On the west side of town , US 2 meets US 141 ; the two highways run concurrently along Crystal Avenue .

 The combined highway turns south onto 5th Street and meets M ‑ 69 's eastern terminus at the intersection between 5th Street and Superior Avenue next to the county courthouse at the top of the hill .

 US 2 / US 141 runs south out of Crystal Falls to the west of , and parallel to , the Paint River .

 The roadway passes Railroad , Kennedy and Stager lakes and leaves the state of Michigan at the Brule River , crossing into Florence County , Wisconsin for about 14 miles ( 23 km ) .

 US 2 / US 141 re @-@ enters Michigan where it crosses the Menominee River and subsequently meets M ‑ 95 in Breitung Township north of Iron Mountain and Kingsford .

 The road crosses through a retail corridor and over a flooded pit of the Chapin Mine .

 US 2 / US 141 exits downtown and turns east along a second retail corridor near the Midtown Mall .

 The highway re @-@ enters Breitung Township where US 141 separates to the south to re @-@ enter Wisconsin .

 US 2 continues eastward parallel to a branch of the Canadian National Railway ( CN Railway ) .

 Both road and rail travel through the community of Quinnesec , where they pass near the largest paper mill in the UP .

 The trunkline runs along the main street of Norway , where the highway meets the eastern terminus of US 8 .

 In Menominee County , the environment takes on a more agricultural character along US 2 .

 The highway passes through the edge of the community of Hermansville before entering Powers .

 US 2 comes to a three @-@ way intersection and turns northeast merging onto US 41 .

 The concurrent highway runs from Powers through the communities of Wilson and Spaulding on the south side of the CN Railway .

 At Harris , the trunkline enters the Hannahville Indian Community .

 The county line in between not only separates the two communities , but also serves as the boundary between the Central and Eastern time zones .

 East of Bark River , the highway crosses the community 's namesake waterway before intersecting the eastern terminus of M ‑ 69 .

 The roadway crosses the Ford River prior to turning due east into the outskirts of Escanaba .

 Near downtown , the highway meets M ‑ 35 , which runs along the city 's north – south axis , Lincoln Avenue .

 The trunklines merge and run north , bypassing the traditional central business district for a different business corridor .

 US 2 / US 41 / M ‑ 35 continues north on Lincoln Avenue past the campus of Bay de Noc Community College .

 The four @-@ lane highway crosses the Escanaba River just upstream from its mouth near the large Mead Paper Mill and shifts to run immediately next to Little Bay de Noc .

 The road turns inland again , and US 2 / US 41 / M ‑ 35 passes to the west of downtown Gladstone .

 The highway through here is an expressway , four lanes divided by a central median and no driveway access .

 Unlike a freeway , the expressway has standard intersections and not interchanges .

 The highway intersects the eastern terminus of County Road 426 ( CR 426 ) and crosses the ELS Railroad south of the stoplight for 4th Avenue North , where M ‑ 35 separates from the US Highways and turns to the northwest .

 The expressway continues north parallel to the CN Railway , crossing the Days River .

 Through this area , the trunkline carries a speed limit of 65 mph ( 105 km / h ) for car traffic .

 The expressway segment runs around the upper end of Little Bay de Noc before ending at Rapid River .

 In this location , US 41 separates to the north , and US 2 returns to an easterly track as a two @-@ lane road , crossing the Rapid and Whitefish rivers and turning southeast around the head of the bay .

 As US 2 crosses southern Delta County , it passes through the western unit of the Hiawatha National Forest .

 Near Garden Corners , the highway runs along the shore of Big Bay de Noc .

 After the intersection with the northern terminus of M ‑ 183 , US 2 turns inland cutting across the base of the Garden Peninsula and enters Schoolcraft County .

 As the highway approaches Thompson , US 2 leaves the western unit of the Hiawatha National Forest and enters the Lake Superior State Forest .

 The roadway runs along Lake Michigan to Manistique , crossing the Manistique River .

 The trunkline turns inland approaching Gulliver and then turns north @-@ northeast to Blaney Park .

 The community there is a former logging town @-@ turned @-@ resort at the southern terminus of M ‑ 77 ; the resort was active from the late 1920s but declined by the 1980s .

 After passing the community of Epoufette , US 2 crosses the Cut River Bridge , 147 feet ( 45 m ) over the Cut River .

 The highway crosses into the eastern unit of the Hiawatha National Forest near Brevort , running between Lake Michigan and Brevort Lake in the process .

 The road continues along the Lake Michigan shoreline , passing Mystery Spot near Gros Cap and turning inland immediately west of St. Ignace .

 The US 2 designation ends at the highway 's partial cloverleaf interchange with I ‑ 75 .

 The roadway continues easterly into downtown St. Ignace as Business Loop I ‑ 75 ( BL I ‑ 75 ) .

 = = History = =

 Two of these trails followed parts of the future US 2 .

 The Sault – Green Bay Trail roughly followed the Lake Michigan shoreline routing of US 2 between Escanaba and St. Ignace .

 The Mackinac Trail connected St. Ignace with Sault Ste . Marie .

 In the age of the auto trail , the roads that later formed US 2 through the UP were given a few different highway names .

 The roadways were also used for the Theodore Roosevelt International Highway , named for former US president Theodore Roosevelt after his death in 1919 .

 Overall , this highway ran from Portland , Oregon , to Portland , Maine , by way of Michigan and the Canadian province of Ontario .

 Through the UP , the southern branch followed the immediate predecessors to US 2 , including the section through Florence County , Wisconsin .

 The Great Lakes Automobile Route was established in 1917 by the UPDB .

 A predecessor of the Great Lakes Circle Tours by seventy years , the route followed " a circular journey along the banks of lakes Michigan and Superior and Green Bay ... "

 Branches of the route followed US 41 and M ‑ 35 between Powers and Escanaba .

 The route was originally intended to entice motorists to drive around Lake Michigan .

 The name fell out of use before its first anniversary because of World War I .

 One Canadian auto trail was routed through the UP as well .

 In 1920 , the King 's International Highway linked Vancouver , British Columbia , to Halifax , Nova Scotia , but there was no highway to carry it around the north side of Lake Superior .

 Motorists had to ship their cars by boat between Sault Ste . Marie , Ontario , and Thunder Bay or enter the United States to continue along the auto trail .

 The routings varied on the maps of the time , but its basic route used US 2 through the UP from Ironwood to Sault Ste .

 The former routing of M ‑ 12 from Crystal Falls to Sagola became a new M ‑ 69 when the former M ‑ 69 became US 102 ( now US 141 ) .

 M ‑ 12 from Sagola south to Iron Mountain was made a part of an extended M ‑ 45 , which is now M ‑ 95 .

 The first changes to the routing of US 2 itself were made in 1930 with a bypass of downtown Escanaba .

 A larger rerouting was completed in 1933 between Rogers Park and Sault Ste . Marie .

 The new routing followed Mackinac Trail instead of turning east to Cedarville and north to Sault Ste . Marie ; the former routing was given the M ‑ 121 designation .

 Another realignment in the Iron Mountain area shifted US 2 / US 141 to a new bridge over the Menominee River between 1932 and 1934 .

 The Michigan State Highway Department ( MSHD ) changed the routings and designations of the highways around Cooks , Thompson and Manistique in the mid @-@ 1930s .

 The agency rerouted US 2 between Cooks and M ‑ 149 in Thompson , turning the old road back to county control .

 The section between M ‑ 149 and M ‑ 125 was redesignated as an extension of M ‑ 149 to Thompson , and M ‑ 125 was replaced by a further extension of M ‑ 149 .

 The MSHD started construction in 1936 on a new road that rerouted US 2 into St. Ignace for the first time .

 The new routing took US 2 along the lakeshore into St. Ignace .

 Further changes in the early 1940s straightened the roadway out near Watersmeet and Crystal Falls .

 Additional realignments were completed by the MSHD to move US 2 to its modern lakeshore routing between Gould City and Epoufette in 1941 .

 The former route through Engadine was turned back to local control as far east as Garnet .

 Another former section into Epoufette was added to extend M ‑ 117 .

 The new highway was detoured around the Cut River Bridge until it was completed in 1946 after construction delays over steel shortages during World War II .

 The western end of US 2 took on two changes in the 1940s .

 A similar extension was made from M ‑ 28 's eastern terminus to Sault Ste . Marie in 1948 .

 The M ‑ 54 designation was renumbered as Business US 2 by 1945 .

 The eastern M ‑ 28 extension was reversed in 1950 , and the western extension to the state line was shifted to a new location by 1952 .

 = = = Interstate era = = =

 With the coming of the Interstate Highway System in Michigan , the MSHD planned to convert the eastern section of US 2 to a freeway between St. Ignace and Sault St. Marie .

 In planning maps from 1947 , this highway corridor was included in the system that later became the Interstates .

 The proposed number in 1958 was Interstate 75 ( I ‑ 75 ) .

 The first section of freeway was built in late 1957 or early 1958 between Evergreen Shores and M ‑ 123 north of St. Ignace .

 The Mackinac Bridge was opened to traffic on November 1 , 1957 ; a new section of freeway and an interchange connected US 2 to the bridge .

 In 1961 , another new freeway segment closed the gap between the Mackinac Bridge and Evergreen Shores sections .

 The former routing of US 2 in downtown St. Ignace was redesignated BL I ‑ 75 .

 More sections of freeway were opened in 1962 immediately to the south of the newly constructed International Bridge in Sault Ste .

 Marie as well as between Dafter and Kinross .

 At this time , all of US 2 's former routing became a county road known as Mackinac Trail ( H @-@ 63 ) .

 The Department of State Highways expanded US 2 / US 41 into an expressway between Gladstone and Rapid River in 1971 .

 MDOT disposed of the former routing of US 2 into downtown in two ways .

 An extension of M ‑ 94 replaced the remainder , including the Siphon Bridge , through downtown .

 In that same year , the department truncated US 2 to end in St. Ignace by removing it from the I ‑ 75 freeway .

 The last changes were made to US 2 's routing through Iron River in 1998 , bypassing the bridge that formerly carried the highway over the river in town .

 In 2011 , MDOT raised the speed limit along the expressway section in Delta County from 55 to 65 mph ( 89 to 105 km / h ) , although the speed limit for trucks remains 55 mph ( 89 km / h ) .

 = = Memorial designations and tourist routes = =

 On July 1 , 1924 , the State Administrative Board named M ‑ 12 , the predecessor to US 2 in Michigan , the Bohn Highway to honor Frank P. Bohn , a prominent local citizen who later served in Congress from 1927 to 1933 .

 In 1929 , the residents of Escanaba created a memorial to the veterans of World War I called Memory Lane .

 The project consisted of elm and maple trees planted along US 2 / US 41 west of town .

 The American Legion sold the trees to local businesses and individuals who could honor specific soldiers .

 Later in 1949 , the Bessemer Women 's Club created a tribute in the form of a permanent living memorial to the area veterans .

 Also called Memory Lane , the group planted 140 elms and 1 @ , @ 840 evergreens , trees and shrubs as a landscaped parkway along 2 @.@ 3 miles ( 3 @.@ 7 km ) of US 2 east of Bessemer .

 Most of US 2 , along with US 23 in the Lower Peninsula , was designated the United Spanish War Veterans Memorial Highway in 1949 .

 To connect the gap in the routing where US 2 cuts through Wisconsin , M ‑ 95 and M ‑ 69 were used in place of US 2 between Iron Mountain and Crystal Falls .

 Signs marking the highway were not erected until 1968 when Governor George W. Romney had them installed .

 The American Veterans ( AMVETS ) organization in Michigan petitioned the Michigan Legislature to grant this designation , which was assigned under Public Act 144 in 1959 .

 These two tours were created in May 1986 through a joint effort between MDOT and its counterparts in Wisconsin , Minnesota and Ontario .

 The section of US 2 between Iron River and Crystal Falls has been named the Iron County Heritage Trail .

 This Pure Michigan Byway was designated to honor the " rich history of two industries that built a state and nation : mining and logging . "

 On August 26 , 2007 , MDOT announced that the section of US 2 that runs concurrently with M ‑ 35 in Delta County was being included in the UP Hidden Coast Recreational Heritage Trail .

 = = Historic bridges = =

 There are six bridges along current or former sections of US 2 that MDOT has added to its listing of Michigan 's Historic Bridges ; two of these are also listed on the National Register of Historic Places ( NRHP ) .

 The first of these historic bridges is the crossing of the Iron River , which has since been bypassed by a new bridge .

 In December 2012 , the National Park Service approved the listing of the Upper Twin Falls Bridge that crosses the Menominee River northwest of Iron Mountain .

 It was built between 1909 and 1910 because the Twin Falls Power Dam would flood an existing river crossing .

 Until the 1930s , the Upper Twin Falls Bridge carried US 2 across the Menominee River .

 In 1934 , a new bridge was built about a mile downstream , and the highway was rerouted over the new span .

 The bridge closed to automobile traffic in September 1971 , and the nomination process for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places began in 2012 .

 In 2003 , MDOT replaced the Sturgeon River Bridge in Waucedah Township , Dickinson County .

 It was built in 1929 .

 Before 1983 , US 2 used a different routing through Manistique and crossed the Manistique River on what is nicknamed the " Siphon Bridge " . Built as a part of a raceway flume on the river , the water level is actually higher than the road surface .

 This produces a siphon effect , giving the bridge its nickname .

 The Manistique Pulp and Paper Company was organized in 1916 and needed a dam on the Manistique River to supply their mill .

 The Michigan Works Progress Administration described the bridge as having " concrete bulkheads , formed by the side spans of the bridge , [ that ] allow the mill to maintain the water level several feet above the roadbed .

 " The Manistique Tourism Council stated : "

 The eight @-@ span structure is 294 feet ( 90 m ) long .

 The Cut River Bridge carries US 2 across the Cut River in Hendricks Township , Mackinac County .

 This structure was built during World War II but completion was delayed due to war @-@ induced steel shortages .

 The Cut River Bridge is one of only two cantilevered deck truss bridges in the state .

 On either side of the bridge , there are picnic areas and trails down to the river .

 Increasing traffic along Mackinac Trail prompted the MSHD to " widen its deck by five feet [ 1 @.@ 5 m ] and install new guardrails in the 1929 – 1930 biennium " along with the addition of decorative retaining walls .

 Built in 1934 , it is one of only three steel arch bridges in the state .

 = = Major intersections = =

 MDOT has erected milemarkers along the two Michigan segments of the highway that use the total mileage starting at the state line in Ironwood ; the signs on the eastern segment reflect the mileage in Florence County , Wisconsin .

 = = Business route = =

 The route extends through downtown Ironwood on Silver and Aurora streets before turning northward along Suffolk Street .

 Bus . US 2 stays on Suffolk Street for a short while until it turns onto Frederick Street .

 The business route was created in August 1942 when former M ‑ 54 in Ironwood was renumbered as a business loop of US 2 .

 = Butterfly World Tour =

 The tour visited Asia , Australia and the United States , with rehearsals taking place in December 1997 .

 Starting on January 11 , 1998 the tour spanned five shows in Asia , six in Australia , and one in Hawaii , US .

 Throughout the tour , Carey varied hairstyles and outfits , as well as song selections .

 The Butterfly World Tour was very successful ; the four dates at Japan 's largest stadium , Tokyo Dome , sold out in under one hour , equaling over 200 @ ,@ 000 tickets , breaking the previous record she held at the stadium for show sell @-@ outs .

 The tour was recorded in VHS format , and was titled Around the World .

 The video featured live performances of Carey at different worldwide venues including New York , Japan , Hawaii and Brisbane .

 Other scenes are included in the video such as a conversation between Carey and Brenda K. Starr prior to her performance of " I Still Believe " . Prior to the performances in Australia , a scene of Carey swimming with dolphins is shown .

 Additionally , Olivia Newton @-@ John makes a cameo appearance during their joint performance of Newton @-@ John 's song , " Hopelessly Devoted to You " .

 = = Background = =

 The opening night of the tour received scathing reviews , mostly aimed at Carey 's deemed " obvious " stage @-@ fright and failure to make a connection with the crowd .

 Succeeding nights were more favorably reviewed , with critics raving about Carey 's vocals .

 Her range extends from a rich , husky alto to dog @-@ whistle high notes ; she can linger over sensual turns , growl with playful confidence , syncopate like a scat singer .

 The tour in contrast , received critical acclaim from critics and fans alike , as well as breaking ticket sale records .

 Carey 's three shows at Japan 's largest stadium , Tokyo Dome , sold out in under three hours , equaling in over 150 @ ,@ 000 tickets , setting the record of fastest show sellouts in Japan 's history .

 On the Butterfly World Tour , Carey broke the record , selling 200 @ ,@ 000 tickets in under one hour .

 However , due to overwhelming demand by fans , Carey agreed to perform in Asia once again , only extending the tour to Taiwan and Australia , as well as one last show in the United States .

 Rehearsals for the show began shortly after Christmas 1997 , extending for a period of two weeks .

 = = Concert synopsis = =

 The show began with Carey standing on a small elevated centerpiece on stage , surrounded by several long draped curtains .

 Carey featured three background vocalists throughout the tour , Trey Lorenz , Melodie Daniels and Kelly Price .

 As she began performing " Emotions " , the platform was lowered so Carey could access the other sections of the stage throughout the song 's performance .

 During the song , several male backup dancers performed slow and ample dance routines behind Carey on a higher level of the stage .

 For the performance of " Dreamlover " , Carey was joined by three female back @-@ up dancers , who mimicked her light dance routines during the song .

 After the song 's performance , Carey was joined on @-@ stage by Lorenz , who performed " I 'll Be There " alongside her .

 Next came " Make It Happen " , a song which accompanied yet another wardrobe change for Carey .

 She donned a short mini @-@ skirt , alongside a sleeveless white blouse and loose golden curls .

 On @-@ stage , Carey was joined by a full church choir , all dressed in long black garments .

 After completing the song , Carey changed to a pair of leg @-@ hugging blue jeans and a tank top .

 The performance featured the most intricate choreography Carey performed on the tour .

 Carey once again changed to a beige ensemble similar to her first outfit before performing her debut single , " Vision of Love " .

 She donned a long brown sequined gown for the performance , being joined on stage once again by her trio of back @-@ up singers .

 During the song , Carey donned a Santa suit and matching hat , while being carried on a large stage prop by the dancers .

 = = Critical reception = =

 The show at Hawaii 's 50 @ , @ 000 capacity Aloha Stadium sold out as well , making her one of the few acts in the stadiums history to sell out the entire venue .

 Aside from its commercial success , fans and critics raved about the show 's visuals , as well as Carey 's vocal delivery .

 = = Broadcasts and recordings = =

 During the tour , several bits and performances were filmed and later edited into a VHS and DVD entitled Around the World .

 The VHS featured performances from Tokyo Dome , Aloha Stadium as well as few other skits and scenes that were later compiled into the video .

 The film first begins with performances in Hawaii , where the song 's recitals are cut into halves , excluding the second verses and bridge to shorten the bulk length of the video .

 Afterwards , Carey 's performance of " My All " is shown in inter @-@ cut scenes from Japan and Taipei .

 A scene of a fans gathering outside of a New York City studio is shown , following a performance of " Honey , " and " Hero " at Aloha Stadium .

 = = Set list = =

 " Looking In / Butterfly ( Intro ) "

 " Emotions "

 " The Roof "

 " My All "

 " Close My Eyes "

 " Daydream Interlude ( Fantasy Sweet Dub Mix ) "

 " Dreamlover "

 " Hero "

 " I 'll Be There " ( with Trey Lorenz )

 " Make You Happy ( Trey Lorenz )

 " Make It Happen "

 " One Sweet Day " ( featuring pre @-@ recorded Boyz II Men )

 " Ain 't Nobody ( Band Interlude )

 " Fantasy ( Bad Boy Remix "

 " Whenever You Call " 1

 " Breakdow n1

 " Honey " ( featuring pre @-@ recorded Mase ) "

 " Vision of Love "

 " Butterfly

 " Without You1

 " Butterfly ( Outro ) "

 " All I Want for Christmas is You1

 < sus > 1 < / sus >

 Performed on select dates

 = = Shows = =

 = = Personnel = =

 Walter Afanasieff - director , keyboard

 Dan Shea - keyboard

 Vernon Black - guitar

 Randy Jackson - bass

 Gigi Conway - drums

 Peter Michael - percussion

 Gary Cirimelli - music sequencing

 Trey Lorenz - vocals , background vocals

 Kelly Price - background vocals

 Cheree Price - background vocals

 Melonie Daniels - background vocals

 Cindy Mizelle - background vocals

 Source :

 = Thelnetham Windmill =

 The windmill is located at Thelnetham , Suffolk , England .

 It was built in the early nineteenth century to grind wheat into flour .

 Thelnetham windmill worked by wind power until 1924 , latterly on two sails , after which it became derelict .

 In 1979 , a group of enthusiasts purchased Thelnetham windmill for restoration .

 Numerous volunteers helped to restore the mill to full working order over an eight @-@ year period .

 The mill is open to the public , and flour ground at the mill can be bought at the site .

 It drives two pairs of millstones , with a third pair driven by an auxiliary engine .

 = = History = =

 The windmill at Thelnetham was built by millwright George Bloomfield for William Button in 1819 .

 It replaced a post mill which had been moved to Sandy Lane , Diss , Norfolk the previous year .

 The mill was set to work on Christmas Day 1819 .

 In 1832 , the mill was modernised by the fitting of a cast @-@ iron windshaft , Patent sails and a fantail .

 The new windshaft was fitted on 16 July 1832 .

 It was made by J Aickman , the Kings Lynn millwright , and weighs 1 ¾ tons ( 1 @ , @ 780 kg ) .

 A new stock was fitted in September 1836 .

 William Button died on 11 February 1837 .

 The mill passed jointly to his widow Rebecca and their son Richard .

 Richard Button worked the mill until 1860 , at which date it was conveyed to his sons Richard and William , who sold it to Richard Peverett from Kenninghall , Norfolk in 1862 .

 The mill was worked by Stephen Peverett , Richard 's son .

 He inherited the mill on the death of his father in 1875 and leased it to Henry Bryant in 1879 .

 In 1884 , the mill was sold by auction , and Henry Bryant purchased the freehold .

 Bryant rebuilt the floors of the mill .

 From 1892 , a portable steam engine was used as auxiliary power , driving an extra pair of millstones on the ground floor .

 This was replaced in 1914 by a Hornsby oil engine .

 Bryant ran the mill until 1920 when he sold it to Alphonso Vincent , a retired millwright from Garboldisham , Norfolk .

 The Hornsby engine was sold in the early 1920s .

 Vincent carried out some repairs to the mill and ran it until he retired in 1924 .

 One of the remaining two sails was wrecked in 1926 when the mill was again tailwinded .

 On the death of Alphonso Vincent in 1932 , his son George inherited the property .

 He lived at the site in an old lorry until his death in 1973 .

 The mill passed to his daughter , who sold it in 1974 to Mr and Mrs Humphries , who intended to convert it into a house .

 They later changed their minds and offered it for sale for restoration .

 In 1976 , the cap of the mill was blown to pieces in a gale .

 Thelnetham windmill was purchased by five members of the Suffolk Mills Group in November 1979 , and plans for restoration were made .

 The consortium consisted of Mark Barnard , Charles Dolman , Peter Dolman , David Pearce and Chris Seago .

 The derelict mill and an acre of land cost £ 6 @ , @ 000 .

 = = Restoration = =

 The mill was restored over a period of six years .

 Much of the work was carried out by enthusiasts who used working holidays to repair the mill .

 = = = 1979 – 1980 = = =

 The consortium took possession of the mill in November 1979 .

 The first priority was to make the mill as weathertight as possible .

 Polythene sheets were spread on the dust floor of the mill to prevent further water penetration of the structure .

 The mill was surveyed and recorded .

 In spring 1980 , the dust floor partially collapsed and was removed as a safety measure .

 Scaffolding was erected to allow the fanstage to be dismantled , and the cap centering wheels were removed in preparation for the removal of the cap frame .

 A two @-@ week work @-@ in was held at the end of July and beginning of August 1980 .

 Thirty @-@ three volunteers worked on the mill over the work @-@ in .

 On 3 August 1980 , the windshaft and remaining sail fragments were removed by a mobile crane , followed by the cap frame and the cast @-@ iron curb sections .

 New oak joists were laid on the dust floor and temporary boarding laid to provide a working platform for repairs to the top of the mill tower .

 The bin floor was removed , apart from one oak main beam which was repairable .

 A replacement main beam was made from pitch pine , and the oak beam was repaired .

 New oak joists were fitted , along with some salvaged from the original floor which were fit to be reused .

 The sack hoist was dismantled to enable its repair , brickwork was repaired , and new lintels were made for some of the windows .

 A tarpaulin was secured over the mill tower to keep the weather out over winter .

 The work was financed by grants of £ 500 from the Council for the Preservation of Rural Essex , £ 250 from St Edmundsbury Borough Council , £ 200 from the Scarfe Trust , and £ 200 from the Suffolk Mills Group .

 Other donations and income amounted to £ 65 , with the balance of expenditure being met jointly by the five owners .

 = = = 1981 = = =

 A total of 37 volunteers participated over the two weeks .

 The millstones were removed from the stone floor , which was then repaired .

 One of the main beams was found to have been attacked by Death Watch beetles , and over a third of the elm beam was replaced with oak .

 The six supports for the hurst frame were repaired one at a time , as they bore the whole of the weight of the machinery above .

 One post required replacement .

 It had rotted and the floor had sunk by 4 inches ( 100 mm ) causing the second main floor beam to fracture .

 The new main beam for the stone floor was installed and the ground floor was concreted .

 The stone floor was reconstructed , reusing the old stone bearers and those joists that were fit for reuse .

 Other joists were made new from oak or pitch pine .

 New floorboards were laid in the dust floor , the 1 1 ⁄ 4 inches ( 32 mm ) thick elm boards being double @-@ grooved with a metal tongue between them .

 Those on the bin floor are of a similar configuration .

 The top four courses of brickwork of the mill tower were removed and work began on rebuilding them , aided by a trammel attached to the upright shaft .

 The window on the dust floor was rebuilt and the reconstruction of the top four courses of brickwork continued .

 The top two courses were rebuilt with red engineering bricks .

 The dust floor window had a reinforced concrete lintel cast as the tower was weak at this point and had distorted .

 The windshaft , the curb segments and fantail gearing were given two coats of red lead paint .

 A new finial for the cap was made from a piece of oak 3 feet ( 910 mm ) long by 16 inches ( 410 mm ) diameter .

 A start was made on removing the old pointing on the brickwork and repointing with gauged mortar .

 After the work @-@ in had finished , the boarding of the stone floor was completed and the mill thoroughly cleaned in preparation for an open day which was held in late autumn .

 The work done in 1981 cost £ 3 @ , @ 250 .

 Other donations and income received amounted to £ 70 .

 The project received further coverage in local media , the Eastern Daily Press , and South Norfolk News .

 = = = 1982 = = =

 The 1982 work @-@ ins took place from 24 July to 1 August and 21 August to 29 August .

 The work planned included the completion of the brickwork at the top of the tower , installation of the Elm curb , a start on the construction of the new cap , installing machinery and making and fitting various doors and windows .

 The cap frame was constructed , incorporating two beams from the original cap frame that were fit to be reused .

 The cap frame was completed in autumn 1982 .

 It had been constructed upside down and a mobile crane was used to turn it over and place the windshaft into position .

 = = = 1983 = = =

 Work in the early part of 1983 was mainly confined to smaller jobs such as casting various brasses and overhaul of the various parts of the fantail drivetrain and mechanism for controlling the Patent sails .

 Other work included the overhaul of the final drive to the 4 feet 7 inches ( 1 @.@ 40 m ) stones , including dismantling the stone nut and replacement of three cogs in beech .

 When the weather improved , work commenced outside .

 The cap circle was mostly constructed before the first work @-@ in commenced .

 During the first work @-@ in , the fantail posts and braces were fitted .

 The oak cap ribs , which had been prefabricated offsite were fitted and the finial was supported by scaffolding ready for final fitting .

 Intermdiate noggings of oak were fitted and the finial was pulled into position using a windlass .

 The cap frame was competed with the fitting of intermediate ribs and noggings .

 The rear of the cap circle was also completed during this time .

 Between the two work @-@ ins , the rear dormer was completed and the fitting of noggings to the cap frame completed .

 This enabled a start to be made on boarding the cap on the Monday of the second work @-@ in .

 A new neck bearing was installed under the windshaft , not without difficulty and much machining before it would fit .

 When the boarding of the cap was completed , the cover strips were fitted over the joints .

 The petticoat was drawn into position using a rope and windlass , and the galvanised steel reinforcing band screwed into position , producing a sturdy structure .

 The striking rod was fitted through the windshaft and the axle for the fantail fitted in position on top of the fantail posts .

 Repointing of the brickwork of the tower continued , with nearly half of it completed at the end of the second work @-@ in .

 After the work @-@ ins had ended , work continued on finishing the cap which was scheduled for lift @-@ on in October .

 Final work was done to the cap and a new window was fitted to the stone floor of the mill .

 The tarpaulin was removed and the trammel dismantled .

 The fitting of the cap was toasted with beer from Adnams Brewery , Southwold .

 Restoration work in 1983 cost £ 1 @ , @ 408 .

 Further income came from the sale of guide books and a drawing of the mill by Wilf Foreman .

 = = = 1984 = = =

 Four work @-@ ins were held during 1984 .

 The first two were by apprentices from Eastern Electricity Board .

 Thelnetham Windmill was chosen at the project to benefit from the Young Person 's Development Project for that year .

 Two separate parties spent a week each at the mill .

 A mains electricity supply was provided .

 An underground cable was laid with assistance from British Telecom who were trialling a thrust borer which had been developed at their research facility at Martlesham Heath .

 The thrust borer laid 25 yards ( 23 m ) of ducting through which the mains cable was pulled into position .

 The mill was then supplied with lights and sockets on each floor .

 Other work undertaken by the apprentices involved repairing some frost damage to the foundation brickwork , digging a drainage trench around the mill and moving the auxiliary engine into position .

 A concrete path around the tower was trapping moisture , leading to rising damp .

 A French drain was constructed around the mill to remedy these problem .

 A 21 horsepower ( 16 kW ) Ruston & Hornsby 4 YHR diesel engine had been purchased in 1981 and was fitted onto a permanent concrete base with the aid of a mobile crane .

 After fitting it was then painted .

 Some missing or broken parts were made or repaired as necessary .

 Off @-@ site , the new brake wheel and fantail were made .

 The original brake wheel was too rotten to repair , and showed evidence that it had been altered from the original one installed in 1819 .

 The original brake wheel was 6 feet ( 1 @.@ 83 m ) diameter to allow the Common sails to run at their optimum speed .

 When the mill was modernised in 1832 it was necessary to alter the gear ratios within the mill , as Patent sails run at a slower speed than Common sails .

 The opinion of professional millwrights was sought , and it was decided that a scaled @-@ up version of the original brake wheel would be made , but retaining the cast iron teeth segments .

 The remains of the original brake wheel were retained as an exhibit in the mill .

 When the brake wheel was completed it was dismantled and transported to the mill ready for reassembly .

 The fantail was made .

 Some of the small gears were replaced .

 The stocks were made from pitch pine and the blades from Douglas fir .

 Work at the mill over the winter included repairs to the brickwork and windows , with only one window still needing attention when the first work @-@ in began .

 New beech cogs were fitted to the crown wheel , which was restored to its correct position on the upright shaft .

 Thus two new stocks were required instead of one .

 Traditional stocks made from a single piece of timber , or laminated stocks .

 Good quality pitch pine was not obtainable in the lengths required .

 Douglas fir was obtainable in such lengths but was discounted on strength and durability grounds .

 A Douglas fir stock on a nearby mill had rotted after only seven years .

 Thus it was decided that laminated stocks would be made .

 The 52 feet ( 15 @.@ 85 m ) long stocks were made from Douglas fir .

 All timber had been pressure treated with preservative and well seasoned .

 It was estimated that a laminated stock would be up to 20 % stronger than a similar stock of solid timber .

 The timber used was 1 1 ⁄ 2 inches ( 38 mm ) thick and nine laminations were required at the centre , where the stock passes through the poll end of the windshaft .

 Careful attention was paid to where individual joints occurred between different pieces of timber .

 The four sails were made .

 The originals being slightly different pairs .

 Those on the inner stock having bays of 3 feet ( 910 mm ) pitch and those on the outer stock having bays of 3 feet 2 inches ( 970 mm ) pitch .

 It was decided that the new sails would be identical , at the larger pitch .

 Four 27 feet ( 8 @.@ 23 m ) long whips were cut from a baulk of pitch pine obtained from a demolished maltings at Bury St Edmunds .

 The whips are 6 inches ( 150 mm ) square at their inner end .

 Sail bars and uplongs were made from modern pitch pine , selected for quality .

 The mortices for the sail bars were cut .

 Three of the four sails had been completed at the end of the work in .

 The fantail and associated gearing was fitted to the mill .

 At the end of the second work @-@ in , the cap could be turned by means of the hand crank .

 The fantail itself , with the blades painted red , white and blue was installed shortly afterwards .

 The clasp arm brake wheel was assembled around the windshaft .

 It was found that the wallower was eccentric on the upright shaft by ½ inch ( 13 mm ) .

 The clamps for the stocks were sawn from a baulk of pitch pine ready for completion later in the year .

 Other work included a new frame for one of the ground floor doors , cleaning and painting ironwork and further repointing on the brickwork .

 The four sails were fitted to the mill with the aid of a mobile crane at the end of the second work @-@ in .

 The process was repeated for the second pair of sails .

 The mill turned by wind again on the last day of the second work @-@ in .

 Work later in the year included the finishing of the fourth sail , balancing the fantail and sorting out teething troubles with the fantail gearing .

 The brake and brake lever were made and installed and shutter cranks for the sails were cast .

 Restoration work in 1984 cost £ 2 @ , @ 918 .

 Income from open days at the mill came to £ 151 .

 A boost to the funds was £ 2 @ , @ 000 from Hervey Benham .

 This money had been allocated to allow the moving of a derelict post mill buck to Thelnetham .

 = = = 1985 - 87 = = =

 Work planned for 1985 included the replacement of the dust floor window and completion of the stocks and sails .

 The external walls of the mill were tarred and internal walls plastered .

 Two work @-@ ins were held , from 20 July to 28 July and 17 August to 26 August .

 Further work over the next two years saw the restoration completed in 1987 .

 = = Restoration team = =

 The restoration of Thelnetham Windmill was made possible by the efforts of 135 individuals and 61 organisations .

 This was achieved by the donation of labour , plant , materials or grants of money , or by giving discounts for materials purchased or providing publicity for the project .

 = = Description = =

 Terms explained in the Mill machinery article are in italics

 As built in 1819

 A four @-@ storey tower mill with Common sails carried on a wooden windshaft , driving two pairs of overdrift millstones .

 Brake wheel 6 feet ( 1 @.@ 83 m ) diameter .

 Winding was by hand .

 As restored

 The four @-@ storey tower is built of brick , and stands 31 feet 5 inches ( 9 @.@ 58 m ) from ground level to the curb .

 The walls are 2 feet ( 610 mm ) thick at ground level .

 The mill is described from the top down .

 The pepperpot cap sits on top of the tower , giving the mill an overall height of 45 feet ( 13 @.@ 72 m ) to the finial .

 It houses the cast @-@ iron windshaft and 7 feet 2 inches ( 2 @.@ 18 m ) diameter wooden brake wheel internally .

 Externally the four double Patent sails span 64 feet ( 19 @.@ 51 m ) .

 They are 9 feet ( 2 @.@ 74 m ) wide and can develop 30 horsepower ( 22 kW ) .

 The eight bladed fantail keeps the mill turned into wind .

 The top floor of the mill is the dust floor .

 It could be used for storage of grain and gives internal access to the cap .

 The cast @-@ iron wallower , which is driven by the brake wheel is carried at the top of the upright shaft , in the centre of the mill .

 The bin floor is where the grain is stored before being ground into flour .

 The sack hoist mechanism is housed on this floor , driven from the wooden crown wheel on the floor below by belt .

 The stone floor is where the two pairs of underdrift French Burr millstones are located .

 The wooden crown wheel is located towards the ceiling .

 Other machinery on this floor are an oat crusher and a flour dresser .

 The ground floor of the mill is the meal floor .

 The wooden great spur wheel , located at the bottom of the extended upright shaft and stone nuts are located on this floor .

 The great spur wheel has been converted from compass arm construction to clasp arm construction .

 A third pair of 4 feet 6 inches ( 1 @.@ 37 m ) diameter French Burr millstones is located on a hurst frame , driven by the auxiliary engine via a fast and loose pulley .

 = = Millers = =

 William Button 1819 @-@ 37

 Rebecca Button 1837 - ? ?

 Richard Button 18 ? ? - 60

 William Button 1860 @-@ 62

 Richard Button ( Jr ) 1860 @-@ 62

 Stephen Peverett 1862 @-@ 79

 Henry Bryant 1879 @-@ 1920

 Alphonso Vincent 1920 @-@ 24

 George Vincent 1920 @-@ 24

 Reference for above : -

 = = Culture and media = =

 A video of the restoration of the mill was produced by Viv Codd .

 = = Public access = =

 Thelnetham Mill is open to the public on Easter Monday , the Sunday of the late May and August bank holidays and the first Sunday in July , August and September .

 It is also open at other times by prior arrangement .

 = Sailor Mouth =

 " Sailor Mouth " is the first segment of the 18th episode of the second season , or the 38th overall episode of the American animated television series SpongeBob SquarePants .

 The episode was directed by Andrew Overtoom , and was written by Walt Dohrn , Paul Tibbitt , and Merriwether Williams .

 Dohrn and Tibbitt also served as storyboard directors , and Carson Kugler , William Reiss , and Erik Wiese worked as storyboard artists .

 It originally aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on September 21 , 2001 .

 The series follows the adventures and endeavors of the title character and his various friends in the underwater city of Bikini Bottom .

 In this episode , SpongeBob reads a " bad word " off a dumpster behind the Krusty Krab , but does not know what it means .

 The two start using it in every sentence they speak .

 Later on , SpongeBob accidentally swears again .

 Patrick then runs to tell Mr. Krabs with SpongeBob trying to stop him .

 However , when Mr. Krabs accidentally injures his toe , he utters all the 13 bad words .

 The two cannot believe it and run to Mama Krabs to tell on him .

 Mama Krabs , who is appalled by their use of the words , makes the three paint her house as punishment .

 The episode received positive reviews , while various members of the SpongeBob SquarePants crew consider the episode to be one of their favorites , mainly due to the satirical nature of the episode .

 = = Plot summary = =

 When Sponge

 Sponge

 The next day , SpongeBob walks into the Krusty Krab and says the word to Patrick and then over the intercom .

 The Krusty Krab customers are appalled by SpongeBob 's use of his " word " and leave .

 Squidward then informs Mr. Krabs , who then decides to tell them that they were using profanity , and mentions that there are 13 swear words they should not use .

 SpongeBob and Patrick vow Mr. Krabs that they will never use swear words again .

 Later , they play their favorite game , Eels and Escalators .

 Patrick always gets escalators but SpongeBob always gets eels .

 Eventually , he loses the game and accidentally utters the swear word .

 Patrick then races to the Krusty Krab to tell Mr. Krabs with SpongeBob trying to stop him .

 Sponge

 Bob bursts through the front door and tells Mr. Krabs that Patrick said the swear word , Patrick then joins along .

 When SpongeBob and Patrick hear all the swear words , they run to Mama Krabs ' house to tell her that Mr. Krabs swears .

 When they all reach her house , they repeat the same swear words that Mr. Krabs used .

 This makes her faint , but shortly after Mr. Krabs scolds SpongeBob and Patrick for saying all those bad words in front of her she regains consciousness .

 Mama Krabs states that all three of them should be ashamed for saying all those words .

 She then gives all three of them the task of painting her house with a fresh coat of paint as punishment for saying those words at her .

 = = Production = =

 " Sailor Mouth " was directed by Andrew Overtoom , and was written by Walt Dohrn , Paul Tibbitt , and Merriwether Williams .

 Dohrn and Tibbitt also served as storyboard directors , and Carson Kugler , William Reiss and Erik Wiese worked as storyboard artists .

 Series creator Stephen Hillenburg has described the episode plot as " a classic thing all kids go through .

 " Much of the storyline for the episode was inspired by the writers ' own experiences from childhood .

 The episode originally aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on September 21 , 2001 .

 The writing staff used their individual childhood experiences as inspirations to come up with much of the story lines for this episode .

 The idea for " Sailor Mouth " was inspired by creative director Derek Drymon 's experience " [ when ]

 I got in trouble for saying the f @-@ word in front of my mother .

 "

 According to the series ' season 2 DVD commentary , it was planned to have a scene that had SpongeBob saying "

 It was removed in the final episode check because it would have been inappropriate for the younger audience .

 " Sailor Mouth " was released on the DVD compilation called SpongeBob SquarePants : Sea Stories on March 12 , 2002 .

 It was also included in the SpongeBob SquarePants :

 The Complete 2nd Season DVD released on October 19 , 2004 .

 On September 22 , 2009 , " Sailor Mouth " was released on the SpongeBob SquarePants :

 The First 100 Episodes , alongside all the episodes of seasons one through five .

 = = Reception = =

 Erik Wiese , a member of the SpongeBob SquarePants crew , considers " Sailor Mouth " to be his favorite episode , mainly due to its random and satirical nature , saying " Sometimes Sponge

 According to a report titled Wolves in Sheep 's Clothing , which documents the increase in potentially violent , profane , and sexual content in children 's programming , the Parents Television Council , a watchdog media group , and fans believed the SpongeBob SquarePants episode " Sailor Mouth " was an implicit attempt to promote and satirize use of profanity among children .

 The episode originally aired during the 2001 – 02 television season , ironically the season in which the PTC named SpongeBob SquarePants among the best programs on cable television , but the report cited a repeat broadcast of the episode from 2005 to prove its point that it promoted use of profanity among children .

 In a later report , several members of the PTC listed " Sailor Mouth " as an example of how levels of profane , sexual , and violent activity has increased in children 's television programming .

 Nickelodeon , in response to the incident , said "

 It 's sad and a little desperate that they stooped to literally putting profane language in the mouths of our characters to make a point .

 Has the FCC looked at this ?

 = Military history of Australia =

 The relationship between war and Australian society has also been shaped by the enduring themes of Australian strategic culture and its unique security dilemma .

 = = War and Australian society = =

 War and military service have been defining influences in Australian history , while a major part of the national identity has been built on an idealised conception of the Australian experience of war and of soldiering , known as the Anzac spirit .

 The Gallipoli campaign was one of the first international events that saw Australians taking part as Australians and has been seen as a key event in forging a sense of national identity .

 The relationship between war and Australian society has been shaped by two of the more enduring themes of Australian strategic culture : bandwagoning with a powerful ally and expeditionary warfare .

 Reflecting both the realist and liberal paradigms of international relations and the conception of national interests , a number of other important themes in Australian strategic culture are also obvious .

 These behaviours are also reflective of its unique security dilemma as a largely European island on the edge of the Asia @-@ Pacific , and the geopolitical circumstances of a middle power physically removed from the centres of world power .

 = = Colonial era = =

 From 1788 until 1870 the defence of the Australian colonies was mostly provided by British Army regular forces .

 The New South Wales Corps subsequently was involved in putting down a rebellion of Irish convicts at Castle Hill in 1804 .

 Soon however shortcomings in the corps convinced the War Office of the need for a more reliable garrison in New South Wales and Van Diemen 's Land .

 Chief of these shortcomings was the Rum Rebellion , a coup mounted by its officers in 1808 .

 As a result , in January 1810 the 73rd ( Perthshire ) Regiment of Foot arrived in Australia .

 By 1870 , 25 British infantry regiments had served in Australia , as had a small number of artillery and engineer units .

 Although the primary role of the British Army was to protect the colonies against external attack , no actual threat ever materialised .

 The British Army was instead used in policing , guarding convicts at penal institutions , combating bushranging , putting down convict rebellions — as occurred at Bathurst in 1830 — and to suppress Aboriginal resistance to the extension of European settlement .

 Members of British regiments stationed in Australia also saw action in India , Afghanistan , New Zealand and the Sudan .

 During the early years of settlement the naval defence of Australia was provided by detached Royal Navy units of the East Indies Station , based in Sydney .

 The Royal Navy remained the primary naval force in Australian waters until 1913 , when the Australia Station ceased and responsibility handed over to the Royal Australian Navy ; the Royal Navy 's depots , dockyards and structures were given to the Australian people .

 The reactions of the native Aboriginal inhabitants to the sudden arrival of British settlers in Australia were varied , but were inevitably hostile when the settler 's presence led to competition over resources , and to the occupation of the indigenous inhabitants ' lands .

 European diseases decimated Aboriginal populations , and the occupation or destruction of lands and food resources sometimes led to starvation .

 By and large neither the British nor the Aborigines approached the conflict in an organised sense and conflict occurred between groups of settlers and individual tribes rather than systematic warfare .

 Not all Aboriginal groups resisted white encroachment on their lands , while many Aborigines served in mounted police units and were involved in attacks on other tribes .

 Fighting between Aborigines and Europeans was localised as the Aborigines did not form confederations capable of sustained resistance .

 As a result , there was not a single war , but rather a series of violent engagements and massacres across the continent .

 Organised or disorganised however , a pattern of frontier warfare emerged with Aboriginal resistance beginning in the 18th century and continuing into the early 20th century .

 Faced with Aboriginal resistance settlers often reacted with violence , resulting in a number of indiscriminate massacres .

 Although it began in failure for the British , it ultimately resulted in considerable casualties amongst the native population .

 It may be inaccurate though to depict the conflict as one sided and mainly perpetrated by Europeans on Aborigines .

 Unlike the indigenous peoples of New Zealand and North America , on the main Aborigines failed to adapt to meet the challenge of the Europeans .

 Although there were some instances of individuals and groups acquiring and using firearms , this was not widespread .

 On occasions large groups of Aborigines attacked the settlers in open terrain and a conventional battle ensued , during which the Aborigines would attempt to use superior numbers to their advantage .

 However , such open warfare usually proved more costly for the Aborigines than the Europeans .

 Central to the success of the Europeans was the use of firearms .

 However , the advantages afforded by firearms have often been overstated .

 Prior to the late 19th century , firearms were often cumbersome muzzle @-@ loading , smooth @-@ bore , single shot muskets with flint @-@ lock mechanisms .

 Such weapons produced a low rate of fire , while suffering from a high rate of failure and were only accurate within 50 metres ( 160 ft ) .

 Henry rifle , as well as rapid @-@ fire rifles such as the Winchester rifle , becoming available .

 These weapons , when used on open ground and combined with the superior mobility provided by horses to surround and engage groups of Aborigines , often proved successful .

 The Europeans also had to adapt their tactics to fight their fast @-@ moving , often hidden enemies .

 The conflict lasted for over 150 years and followed the pattern of British settlement in Australia .

 Beginning in New South Wales with the arrival of the first Europeans in May 1788 , it continued in Sydney and its surrounds until the 1820s .

 As the frontier moved west so did the conflict , pushing into outback New South Wales in the 1840s .

 The south @-@ west of Western Australia experienced warfare from 1829 to 1850 .

 Far more devastating though was the effect of disease which significantly reduced the Aboriginal population by the beginning of the 20th century ; a fact which may also have limited their ability to resist .

 In 1861 , the Victorian ship HMCSS Victoria was dispatched to help the New Zealand colonial government in its war against Māori in Taranaki .

 Victoria was subsequently used for patrol duties and logistic support , although a number of personnel were involved in actions against Māori fortifications .

 One sailor died from an accidental gunshot wound during the deployment .

 In late 1863 , the New Zealand government requested troops to assist in the invasion of the Waikato province against the Māori .

 Promised settlement on confiscated land , more than 2 @ , @ 500 Australians ( over half of whom were from Victoria ) were recruited to form four Waikato Regiments .

 Other Australians became scouts in the Company of Forest Rangers .

 Australians were involved in actions at Matarikoriko , Pukekohe East , Titi Hill , Ōrākau and Te Ranga .

 Fewer than 20 were believed to have been killed in action .

 The conflict was over by 1864 , and the Waikato Regiments disbanded in 1867 .

 From 1870 until 1901 , each of the six colonial governments was responsible for their own defence .

 The colonies had gained responsible government between 1855 and 1890 , and while the Colonial Office in London retained control of some affairs , the Governor of the each colony was required to raise their own colonial militia .

 Initially these were militias in support of British regulars , but when military support for the colonies ended in 1870 , the colonies assumed their own defence responsibilities .

 Even after significant reforms in the 1870s — including the expansion of the permanent forces to include engineer and artillery units — they remained too small and unbalanced to be considered armies in the modern sense .

 By 1885 , the forces numbered 21 @ , @ 000 men .

 During this period , defences in Australia mainly revolved around static defence by combined infantry and artillery , based on garrisoned coastal forts .

 However , by the 1890s , improved railway communications between the mainland eastern colonies led Major General James Edwards — who had recently completed a survey of colonial military forces — to the belief that the colonies could be defended by the rapid mobilisation of brigades of infantry .

 As a consequence he called for a restructure of defences , and defensive agreements to be made between the colonies .

 Edwards argued for the colonial forces to be federated and for professional units — obliged to serve anywhere in the South Pacific — to replace the volunteer forces .

 With the exception of Western Australia , the colonies also operated their own navies .

 The colonial navies were expanded greatly in the mid @-@ 1880s and consisted of a number of gunboats and torpedo @-@ boats for the defence of harbours and rivers , as well as naval brigades to man vessels and forts .

 New South Wales formed a Naval Brigade in 1863 and by the start of the 20th century had two small torpedo @-@ boats and a corvette .

 The Queensland Maritime Defence Force was established in 1885 , while South Australia operated a single ship , HMCS Protector .

 Tasmania had also a small Torpedo Corps , while Western Australia 's only naval defences included the Fremantle Naval Artillery .

 The separate colonies maintained control over their military and naval forces until Federation in 1901 , when they were amalgamated and placed under the control of the new Commonwealth of Australia .

 The British instructed the Egyptians to abandon the Sudan , and sent General Charles Gordon to co @-@ ordinate the evacuation , but he was killed in January 1885 .

 When news of his death arrived in New South Wales in February 1885 , the government offered to send forces and meet the contingent 's expenses .

 The New South Wales Contingent consisted of an infantry battalion of 522 men and 24 officers , and an artillery battery of 212 men and sailed from Sydney on 3 March 1885 .

 The contingent arrived in Suakin on 29 March and were attached to a brigade that consisted of Scots , Grenadier and Coldstream Guards .

 Reaching the village , they burned huts and returned to Suakin : three Australians were wounded in minor fighting .

 The Australians were then assigned to guard duties , but soon a camel corps was raised and 50 men volunteered .

 They rode on a reconnaissance to Takdul on 6 May and were heavily involved in a skirmish during which more than 100 Arabs were killed or captured .

 On 15 May , they made one last sortie to bury the dead from the fighting of the previous March .

 Eventually the British government decided that the campaign in Sudan was not worth the effort required and left a garrison in Suakin .

 The New South Wales Contingent sailed for home on 17 May , arriving in Sydney on 19 June 1885 .

 Approximately 770 Australians served in Sudan ; nine subsequently died of disease during the return journey while three had been wounded during the campaign .

 British encroachment into areas of South Africa already settled by the Afrikaner Boers and the competition for resources and land that developed between them as a result , led to the Second Boer War in 1899 .

 The first contingents of infantry from Victoria , South Australia , Western Australia , and Tasmania arrived in Cape Town on 26 November and were designated the Australian Regiment under the command of Colonel John Charles Hoad .

 Further units from Queensland and New South Wales arrived in December and were soon committed to the front .

 Troopers David McLeod and Victor Jones were killed when their patrol clashed with the Boer forward sentries .

 Regardless , the Boers were surprised and during two hours of heavy fighting , more than 50 were killed and another 40 taken prisoner .

 Five hundred Queenslanders and the New South Wales Lancers subsequently took part in the Siege of Kimberley in February 1900 .

 The British entered Bloemfontein on 13 March 1900 , while Ladysmith was relieved .

 Disease began to take its toll and scores of men died .

 Still the advance continued , with the drive to Pretoria in May including more than 3 @ , @ 000 Australians .

 Mafeking was relieved on 17 May .

 Following the defeat of the Afrikaner republics still the Boers held out , forming small commando units and conducting a campaign of guerrilla warfare to disrupt British troop movements and lines of supply .

 This new phase of resistance led to further recruiting in the Australian colonies and the raising of the Bushmen 's Contingents , with these soldiers usually being volunteers with horse @-@ riding and shooting skills , but little military experience .

 Some Australians later joined local South African irregular units , instead of returning home after discharge .

 These soldiers were part of the British Army , and were subject to British military discipline .

 Such units included the Bushveldt Carbineers which gained notoriety as the unit in which Harry " Breaker " Morant and Peter Handcock served in before their court martial and execution for war crimes .

 The post held a large quantity of stores and was defended by 300 Australians and 200 Rhodesians .

 The attack began on 4 August 1900 with heavy shelling causing 32 casualties .

 During the night the defenders dug in , enduring shelling and rifle fire .

 A relief force was stopped by the Boers , while a second column turned back believing that the post had already been relieved .

 After calls to surrender were ignored by the defenders , and not prepared to risk a frontal attack , the Boers eventually retired .

 The Siege of Elands River was one of the major achievements of the Australians during the war , with the post finally relieved on 16 August .

 In response the British adopted counter @-@ insurgency tactics , including a scorched earth policy involving the burning of houses and crops , the establishment of concentration camps for Boer women and children , and a system of blockhouses and field obstacles to limit Boer mobility and to protect railway communications .

 Such measures required considerable expenditure , and caused much bitterness towards the British , however they soon yielded results .

 By mid @-@ 1901 , the bulk of the fighting was over , and British mounted units would ride at night to attack Boer farmhouses or encampments , overwhelming them with superior numbers .

 Indicative of warfare in last months of 1901 , the New South Wales Mounted Rifles travelled 1 @ , @ 814 miles ( 2 @ , @ 919 km ) and were involved in 13 skirmishes , killing 27 Boers , wounding 15 , and capturing 196 for the loss of five dead and 19 wounded .

 Other notable Australian actions included Slingersfontein , Pink Hill , Rhenosterkop and Haartebeestefontein .

 Ultimately the Boers were defeated , and the war ended on 31 May 1902 .

 Six Australians were awarded the Victoria Cross .

 In June , the British government sought permission from the Australian colonies to dispatch ships from the Australian Squadron to China .

 The colonies also offered to assist further , but as most of their troops were still engaged in South Africa , they had to rely on naval forces for manpower .

 Most of these forces were made up of naval brigade reservists , who had been trained in both ship handling and soldiering to fulfil their coastal defence role .

 The soldiers were keen to go to China but refused to be enlisted as sailors , while the New South Wales Naval Brigade objected to having soldiers in their ranks .

 The Army and Navy compromised and titled the contingent the NSW Marine Light Infantry .

 They arrived too late to take part in the battle , but were involved in the attack on the fortress at Pao @-@ ting Fu , where the Chinese government was believed to have found asylum after Peking was captured by western forces .

 The Victorians joined a force of 7 @ , @ 500 men on a ten @-@ day march to the fort , once again only to find that it had already surrendered .

 The Victorians then garrisoned Tientsin and the New South Wales contingent undertook garrison duties in Peking .

 HMCS

 Protector was mostly used for survey , transport , and courier duties in the Gulf of Chihli , before departing in November .

 The naval brigades remained during the winter , unhappily performing policing and guard duties , as well as working as railwaymen and fire @-@ fighters .

 They left China in March 1901 , having played only a minor role in a few offensives and punitive expeditions and in the restoration of civil order .

 Six Australians died from sickness and injury , but none were killed as a result of enemy action .

 The Commonwealth of Australia came into existence on 1 January 1901 as a result of the federation of the Australian colonies .

 Under the Constitution of Australia , defence responsibility was now vested in the new federal government .

 The Australian Commonwealth Military Forces came into being on 1 March 1901 and all the colonial forces — including those still in South Africa — became part of the new force .

 The individual units continued to be administered under the various colonial Acts until the Defence Act 1903 brought all the units under one piece of legislation .

 However , the majority of soldiers remained in militia units , known as the Citizen Military Forces ( CMF ) .

 Prior to federation each self @-@ governing colony had operated its own naval force .

 These navies were small and lacked blue water capabilities , forcing the separate colonies to subsidise the cost of a British naval squadron in their waters for decades .

 The colonies maintained control over their respective navies until 1 March 1901 , when the Commonwealth Naval Force was created .

 This new force also lacked blue water capable ships , and ultimately did not lead to a change in Australian naval policy .

 In 1907 Prime Minister Alfred Deakin and Creswell , while attending the Imperial Conference in London , sought the British Government 's agreement to end the subsidy system and develop an Australian navy .

 The Admiralty rejected and resented the challenge , but suggested diplomatically that a small fleet of destroyers and submarines would be sufficient .

 Deakin was unimpressed , and in 1908 invited the American Great White Fleet to visit Australia .

 This visit fired public enthusiasm for a modern navy and in part led to the order of two 700 @-@ ton River @-@ class destroyers .

 And as a consequence the navy entered the First World War as a formidable force .

 As the existing militia forces were unable to serve overseas under the provisions of the Defence Act 1903 , an all @-@ volunteer expeditionary force known as the Australian Imperial Force ( AIF ) was formed and recruitment began on 10 August 1914 .

 The government pledged 20 @ ,@ 000 men , organised as one infantry division and one light horse brigade plus supporting units .

 Enlistment and organisation was primarily regionally based and was undertaken under mobilisation plans drawn up in 1912 .

 The first commander was Major General William Bridges , who also assumed command of the 1st Division .

 Following the outbreak of war Australian forces moved quickly to reduce the threat to shipping posed by the proximity of Germany 's Pacific colonies .

 The Australian Naval and Military Expeditionary Force ( AN & MEF ) , a 2000 @-@ man volunteer force — separate from the AIF — and consisting of an infantry battalion plus 500 naval reservists and ex @-@ sailors , was rapidly formed under the command of William Holmes .

 The force reached Rabaul on 11 September 1914 and occupied it the next day , encountering only brief resistance from the German and native defenders during fighting at Bita Paka and Toma .

 German New Guinea surrendered on 17 September 1914 .

 Australian losses were light , including six killed during the fighting , but were compounded by the mysterious loss offshore of the submarine AE1 with all 35 men aboard .

 = = = Gallipoli = = =

 The AIF departed by ship in a single convoy from Albany on 1 November 1914 .

 During the journey one of the convoy 's naval escorts — HMAS Sydney — engaged and destroyed the German cruiser SMS Emden at the Battle of Cocos on 8 November , in the first ship @-@ to @-@ ship action involving the Royal Australian Navy .

 Although originally bound for England to undergo further training and then for employment on the Western Front , the Australians were instead sent to British @-@ controlled Egypt to pre @-@ empt any Turkish attack against the strategically important Suez Canal , and with a view to opening another front against the Central Powers .

 Although promising to transform the war if successful , the Gallipoli Campaign was ill @-@ conceived and ultimately lasted eight months of bloody stalemate , without achieving its objectives .

 Australian casualties totalled 26 @ , @ 111 , including 8 @ , @ 141 killed .

 For Australians and New Zealanders the Gallipoli campaign came to symbolise an important milestone in the emergence of both nations as independent actors on the world stage and the development of a sense of national identity .

 = = = Egypt and Palestine = = =

 After the withdrawal from Gallipoli the Australians returned to Egypt and the AIF underwent a major expansion .

 In 1916 the infantry began to move to France while the cavalry units remained in the Middle East to fight the Turks .

 Australian troops of the Anzac Mounted Division and the Australian Mounted Division saw action in all the major battles of the Sinai and Palestine Campaign , playing a pivotal role in fighting the Turkish troops that were threatening British control of Egypt .

 The Anzac Mounted Division subsequently saw considerable action in the Battle of Romani against the Turkish between 3 – 5 August 1916 , with the Turks eventually pushed back .

 Following this victory the British forces went on the offensive in the Sinai , although the pace of the advance was governed by the speed by which the railway and water pipeline could be constructed from the Suez Canal .

 Rafa was captured on 9 January 1917 , while the last of the small Turkish garrisons in the Sinai were eliminated in February .

 The advance entered Palestine and an initial , unsuccessful attempt was made to capture Gaza on 26 March 1917 , while a second and equally unsuccessful attempt was launched on 19 April .

 A third assault occurred between 31 October and 7 November and this time both the Anzac Mounted Division and the Australian Mounted Division took part .

 The Turkish trenches were overrun , with the Australians capturing the wells at Beersheeba and securing the valuable water they contained along with over 700 prisoners for the loss of 31 killed and 36 wounded .

 Later , Australian troops assisted in pushing the Turkish forces out of Palestine and took part in actions at Mughar Ridge , Jerusalem and the Megiddo .

 The Turkish government surrendered on 30 October 1918 .

 Units of the Light Horse were subsequently used to help put down a nationalist revolt in Egypt in 1919 and did so with efficiency and brutality , although they suffered a number of fatalities in the process .

 The AFC was soon expanded and four squadrons later saw action in Egypt , Palestine and on the Western Front , where they performed well .

 Five infantry divisions of the AIF saw action in France and Belgium , leaving Egypt in March 1916 .

 Mouquet Farm was attacked in August , with casualties totalling 6 @ , @ 300 men .

 Combined these efforts cost 7 @ , @ 482 Australian casualties .

 On 7 June 1917 , the II Anzac Corps — along with two British corps — launched an operation in Flanders to eliminate a salient south of Ypres .

 The attack commenced with the detonation of a million pounds ( 454 @ , @ 545 kg ) of explosives that had been placed underneath the Messines ridge , destroying the German trenches .

 The advance was virtually unopposed , and despite strong German counterattacks the next day , it succeeded .

 Australian casualties during the Battle of Messines included nearly 6 @ , @ 800 men .

 Individual actions took place at Menin Road , Polygon Wood , Broodseinde , Poelcappelle and Passchendaele and over the course of eight weeks fighting the Australians suffered 38 @ , @ 000 casualties .

 On 21 March 1918 the German Army launched its Spring Offensive in a last @-@ ditched effort to win the war , unleashing sixty @-@ three divisions over a 70 miles ( 110 km ) front .

 The offensive lasted for the next five months and all five AIF divisions in France were engaged in the attempt to stem the tide .

 By late May the Germans had pushed to within 50 miles ( 80 km ) of Paris .

 During this time the Australians fought at Dernacourt , Morlancourt , Villers @-@ Bretonneux , Hangard Wood , Hazebrouck , and Hamel .

 The German offensive ground to a halt in mid @-@ July and a brief lull followed , during which the Australians undertook a series of raids , known as Peaceful Penetrations .

 The Allies soon launched their own offensive — the Hundred Days Offensive — ultimately ending the war .

 Beginning on 8 August 1918 the offensive included four Australian divisions striking at Amiens .

 Using the combined arms techniques developed earlier at Hamel , significant gains were made on what became known as the " Black Day " of the German Army .

 The financial cost to the Australian government was calculated at £ 376 @ , @ 993 @ , @ 052 .

 Two referendums on conscription for overseas service had been defeated during the war , preserving the volunteer status of the Australian force , but stretching the reserves of manpower available , particularly towards the end of the fighting .

 Consequently , Australia remained one of only two armies on either side not to resort to conscription during the war .

 The war had a profound effect on Australian society in other ways also .

 64 Australians were awarded the Victoria Cross during the First World War .

 The Russian Civil War began after the Russian provisional government collapsed and the Bolshevik party assumed power in October 1917 .

 Although the Australian government refused to commit forces , many Australians serving with the British Army became involved in the fighting .

 A small number served as advisors to White Russian units with the North Russian Expeditionary Force ( NREF ) .

 Other Australians served as advisers with the British Military Mission to the White Russian General , Anton Denikin in South Russia , while several more advised Admiral Aleksandr Kolchak in Siberia .

 Although the motivations of those Australian 's that volunteered to fight in Russia can only be guessed at , it seems unlikely to have been political .

 Regardless , they confirmed a reputation for audacity and courage , winning the only two Victoria Crosses of the land campaign , despite their small numbers .

 In October 1927 , HMAS Adelaide was called to the British Solomon Islands Protectorate as part of a punitive expedition in response to the killing of a district officer and sixteen others by Kwaio natives at Sinalagu on the island of Malaita on 3 October , known as the Malaita massacre .

 Arriving at Tulagi on 14 October , the ship proceeded to Malaita to protect the landing of three platoons of troops , then remained in the area to provide personnel support for the soldiers as they searched for the killers .

 The ship 's personnel took no part in operations ashore , providing only logistic and communications support .

 A small number of Australian volunteers fought on both sides of the Spanish Civil War , although they predominantly supported the Spanish Republic through the International Brigades .

 The Australians were subsequently allocated to the battalions of other nationalities , such as the British Battalion and the Lincoln Battalion , rather than forming their own units .

 At least 66 Australians volunteered , with only one — Nugent Bull , a conservative catholic who was later killed serving in the RAF during the Second World War — known to have fought for General Francisco Franco 's Nationalist forces .

 Australian opposition to the Republican cause was marshalled by B.A. Santamaria on an anti @-@ communist basis , rather than a pro @-@ Nationalist basis .

 Although the number of Australian volunteers was relatively small compared to those from other countries , at least 14 were killed .

 = = = Europe and the Middle East = = =

 Australia entered the Second World War on 3 September 1939 .

 At the time of the declaration of war against Germany the Australian military was small and unready for war .

 Recruiting for a Second Australian Imperial Force ( 2nd AIF ) began in mid @-@ September .

 While there was no rush of volunteers like the First World War , a high proportion of Australian men of military age had enlisted by mid @-@ 1940 .

 Four infantry divisions were formed during 1939 and 1940 , three of which were dispatched to the Middle East .

 The Australian military 's first major engagements of the war were against Italian forces in the Mediterranean and North Africa .

 The Army first saw action in January 1941 , when the 6th Division formed part of the Commonwealth forces during Operation Compass .

 The division assaulted and captured Bardia on 5 January and Tobruk on 22 January , with tens of thousands of Italian troops surrendering at both towns .

 The 6th Division took part in the pursuit of the Italian Army and captured Benghazi on 4 February .

 In late February it was withdrawn for service in Greece , and was replaced by the 9th Division .

 The Australian forces in the Mediterranean endured a number of campaigns during 1941 .

 During April , the 6th Division , other elements of I Corps and several Australian warships formed part of the Allied force which unsuccessfully attempted to defend Greece from German invasion during the Battle of Greece .

 At the end of this campaign , the 6th Division was evacuated to Egypt and Crete .

 The force at Crete subsequently fought in the Battle of Crete during May , which also ended in defeat for the Allies .

 The Germans and Italians also went on the offensive in North Africa at the end of March and drove the Commonwealth force there back to near the border with Egypt .

 The 9th Division and a brigade of the 7th Division were besieged at Tobruk ; successfully defending the key port town until they were replaced by British units in October .

 During June , the main body of the 7th Division , a brigade of the 6th Division and the I Corps headquarters took part in the Syria @-@ Lebanon Campaign against the Vichy French .

 Resistance was stronger than expected ; Australians were involved in most of the fighting and sustained most of the casualties before the French capitulated in early July .

 The majority of Australian units in the Mediterranean returned to Australia in early 1942 , after the outbreak of the Pacific War .

 The RAAF 's role in the strategic air offensive in Europe formed Australia 's main contribution to the defeat of Germany .

 Australians took part in all of Bomber Command 's major offensives and suffered heavy losses during raids on German cities and targets in France .

 Australian airmen in light bomber and fighter squadrons also participated in the liberation of Western Europe during 1944 and 1945 and two RAAF maritime patrol squadrons served in the Battle of the Atlantic .

 From the 1920s Australia 's defence thinking was dominated by British Imperial defence policy , which was embodied by the " Singapore strategy " .

 This strategy involved the construction and defence of a major naval base at Singapore from which a large British fleet would respond to Japanese aggression in the region .

 Measures were taken to improve Australia 's defences as war with Japan loomed in 1941 , but these proved inadequate .

 In December 1941 , the Australian Army in the Pacific comprised the 8th Division , most of which was stationed in Malaya , and eight partially trained and equipped divisions in Australia .

 The RAAF was equipped with 373 aircraft , most of which were obsolete trainers , and the RAN had three cruisers and two destroyers in Australian waters .

 The Australian military suffered a series of defeats during the early months of the Pacific War .

 The 8th Division and RAAF squadrons in Malaya formed a part of the British Commonwealth forces which were unable to stop a smaller Japanese invasion force which landed on 7 December .

 The British Commonwealth force withdrew to Singapore at the end of January , but was forced to surrender on 15 February after the Japanese captured much of the island .

 The prisoners were subjected to malnutrition , denied medical treatment and frequently beaten and killed by their guards .

 The rapid Allied defeat in the Pacific caused many Australians to fear that the Japanese would invade the Australian mainland .

 Large numbers of United States Army and Army Air Forces units arrived in Australia in early 1942 , and the Australian military was placed under the overall command of General Douglas MacArthur in March .

 Australians played a central role in the New Guinea campaign during 1942 and 1943 .

 After an attempt to land troops at Port Moresby was defeated in the Battle of the Coral Sea , the Japanese attempted to capture the strategically important town by advancing overland across the Owen Stanley Ranges and Milne Bay .

 Australian Army units defeated these offensives in the Kokoda Track campaign and Battle of Milne Bay with the support of the RAAF and USAAF .

 Australian and US Army units subsequently assaulted and captured the Japanese bases on the north coast of Papua in the hard @-@ fought Battle of Buna @-@ Gona .

 The Australian Army also defeated a Japanese attempt to capture the town of Wau in January 1943 and went onto the offensive in the Salamaua @-@ Lae campaign in April .

 In late 1943 , the 7th and 9th Divisions played an important role in Operation Cartwheel , when they landed to the east and west of Lae and secured the Huon Peninsula during the Huon Peninsula campaign and Finisterre Range campaign .

 The Australian mainland came under attack during 1942 and 1943 .

 These attacks sought to cut the Allied supply lines between Australia and the US and Australia and New Guinea , but were unsuccessful .

 Japanese aircraft also conducted air raids against Allied bases in northern Australia which were being used to mount the North Western Area Campaign against Japanese positions in the Netherlands East Indies ( NEI ) .

 Australia 's role in the Pacific War declined from 1944 .

 The increasing size of the US forces in the Pacific rendered the Australian military superfluous and labour shortages forced the Government to reduce the size of the armed forces to boost war production .

 Nevertheless , the Government wanted the Australian military to remain active , and agreed to MacArthur 's proposals that it be used in relatively unimportant campaigns .

 In late 1944 , Australian troops and RAAF squadrons replaced US garrisons in eastern New Guinea , New Britain , and Bougainville , and launched offensives aimed at destroying or containing the remaining Japanese forces there .

 In May 1945 , I Corps , the Australian First Tactical Air Force and USAAF and USN units began the Borneo Campaign , which continued until the end of the war .

 These campaigns contributed little to Japan 's defeat and remain controversial .

 Following Japan 's surrender on 15 August 1945 Australia assumed responsibility for occupying much of Borneo and the eastern Netherlands East Indies until British and Dutch colonial rule was restored .

 Australian authorities also conducted a number of war crimes trials of Japanese personnel .

 993 @ , @ 000 Australians enlisted during the war , while 557 @ , @ 000 served overseas .

 20 Victoria Crosses were awarded to Australians .

 = = Post @-@ war period = =

 The demobilisation of the Australian military following the end of the Second World War was completed in 1947 .

 Plans for post @-@ war defence arrangements were predicated on maintaining a relatively strong peacetime force .

 The Royal Australian Air Force would have a strength of 16 squadrons , including four manned by the Citizen Air Force .

 Meanwhile , in a significant departure from previous Australian defence policy which had previously relied on citizen forces , the Australian Army would include a permanent field force of 19 @ , @ 000 regulars organised into a brigade of three infantry battalions with armoured support , serving alongside a part @-@ time force of 50 @ , @ 000 men in the Citizen Military Forces .

 At its height in 1946 the Australian component consisted of an infantry brigade , four warships and three fighter squadrons , totalling 13 @ , @ 500 personnel .

 The Australian Army component initially consisted of the 34th Brigade which arrived in Japan in February 1946 and was based in Hiroshima Prefecture .

 From that time the Australian Army contribution to the occupation of Japan was reduced to a single under @-@ strength battalion .

 The RAAF component consisted of Nos. 76 , 77 and 82 Squadrons as part of No. 81 Wing RAAF flying P @-@ 51 Mustangs , initially based at Bofu from March 1946 , before transferring to Iwakuni in 1948 .

 However , by 1950 only No. 77 Squadron remained in Japan .

 = = Cold War = =

 = = = Early planning and commitments = = =

 During the early years of the Cold War , Australian defence planning assumed that in the event of the outbreak of a global war between the Western world and Eastern bloc countries it would need to contribute forces under collective security arrangements as part of the United Nations , or a coalition led by either the United States or Britain .

 The Middle East was considered the most likely area of operations for Australian forces , where they would most likely operate with British forces .

 Meanwhile , defence preparedness initiatives included the introduction of a National Service Scheme in 1951 to provide manpower for the citizen forces of the Army , RAAF and RAN .

 North Korean forces continued toward the port of Pusan and two days later the United States offered its assistance to South Korea .

 In response the United Nations Security Council requested members to assist in repelling the North Korean attack .

 In addition , it provided the majority of supply and support personnel to the British Commonwealth Forces Korea .

 The RAN frigate HMAS Shoalhaven , and the destroyer HMAS Bataan , were also committed .

 Later , an aircraft carrier strike group aboard HMAS Sydney was added to the force .

 By the time 3 RAR arrived in Pusan on 28 September , the North Koreans were in retreat following the Inchon landings .

 Further successful actions followed at Kujin on 25 – 26 October 1950 and at Chongju on 29 October 1950 .

 North Korean casualties were heavy , while Australian losses included their commanding officer , Lieutenant Colonel Charles Green , who was wounded in the stomach by artillery fire after the battle and succumbed to his wounds and died two days later on 1 November .

 Undetected by US and South Korean intelligence , the 13th Army Group crossed the border on 16 October and penetrated up to 100 kilometres ( 62 mi ) into North Korea , and were reinforced in early November by 12 divisions from the 9th Army Group ; in total 30 divisions composed of 380 @ , @ 000 men .

 Following the Chinese intervention , the UN forces were defeated in successive battles and 3 RAR was forced to withdraw to the 38th parallel .

 A series of battles followed at Uijeongbu on 1 – 4 January 1951 , as the British and Australians occupied defensive positions in an attempt to secure the northern approaches to the South Korean capital .

 Further fighting occurred at Chuam @-@ ni on 14 – 17 February 1951 following another Chinese advance , and later at Maehwa @-@

 San between 7 – 12 March 1951 as the UN resumed the offensive .

 Australian troops subsequently participated in two more major battles in 1951 , with the first taking place during fighting which later became known as the Battle of Kapyong .

 On 22 April , Chinese forces attacked the Kapyong valley and forced the South Korean defenders to withdraw .

 Australian and Canadian troops were ordered to halt this Chinese advance .

 After a night of fighting the Australians recaptured their positions , at the cost of 32 men killed and 59 wounded .

 The second major battle took place during Operation Commando and occurred after the Chinese attacked a salient in a bend of the Imjin River .

 The 1st Commonwealth Division counter @-@ attacked on 3 October , capturing a number of objectives including Hill 355 and Hill 317 during the Battle of Maryang San ; after five days the Chinese retreated .

 The belligerents then became locked in static trench warfare akin to the First World War , in which men lived in tunnels , redoubts , and sandbagged forts behind barbed wire defences .

 Across from them were heavily fortified Chinese positions .

 This battalion remained in Korea for 12 months , before being replaced by 2 RAR in April 1953 .

 The Australians fought their last battle during 24 – 26 July 1953 , with 2 RAR holding off a concerted Chinese attack along the Samichon River and inflicting significant casualties for the loss of five killed and 24 wounded .

 The Malayan Emergency was declared on 18 June 1948 , after three estate managers were murdered by members of the Malayan Communist Party ( MCP ) .

 Base Butterworth they also carried out a number ground attack missions against the guerrillas .

 Australian ground forces were deployed to Malaya in October 1955 as part of the Far East Strategic Reserve .

 2 RAR mainly participated in " mopping up " operations over the next 20 months , conducting extensive patrolling in and near the CT jungle bases , as part of 28th British Commonwealth Brigade .

 Contact with the enemy was infrequent and results small , achieving relatively few kills .

 2 RAR left Malaysia October 1957 to be replaced by 3 RAR .

 3 RAR underwent six weeks of jungle training and began driving MCP insurgents back into the jungle of Perak and Kedah .

 The new battalion extensively patrolled and was involved in food denial operations and ambushes .

 Again contact was limited , although 3 RAR had more success than its predecessor .

 3 RAR left Malaysia October 1959 and was replaced by 1 RAR .

 The Malayan Emergency officially ended on 31 July 1960 .

 Australia also provided artillery and engineer support , along with an air @-@ field construction squadron .

 The Royal Australian Navy also served in Malayan waters , firing on suspected communist positions between 1956 and 1957 .

 In 1964 , Menzies announced a large increase in defence spending .

 In 1961 , three Charles F. Adams @-@ class destroyers were purchased from the United States to replace the ageing Q @-@ class destroyers .

 Traditionally , the RAN had purchased designs based on those of the Royal Navy and the purchase of American destroyers was significant .

 HMAS Perth and HMAS Hobart joined the fleet in 1965 , followed by HMAS Brisbane in 1967 .

 Other projects included the construction of six River @-@ class frigates , the conversion of the aircraft carrier HMAS Melbourne to an anti @-@ submarine role , the acquisition of ten Wessex helicopters , and the purchase of six Oberon @-@ class submarines .

 The RAAF took delivery of their first Mirage fighters in 1967 , equipping No. 3 , No. 75 and No. 77 Squadrons with them .

 As part of Australia 's continuing military commitment to the security of Malaysia , army , naval and airforce units were based there as part of the Far East Strategic Reserve .

 Regardless the Australian government was wary of involvement in a war with Indonesia and initially limited its involvement to the defence of the Malayan peninsula only .

 On two occasions Australian troops from 3 RAR were used to help mop up infiltrators from seaborne and airborne incursions at Labis and Pontian , in September and October 1964 .

 Following these raids the government conceded to British and Malaysian requests to deploy an infantry battalion to Borneo .

 During the early phases , British and Malaysian troops had attempted only to control the Malaysian / Indonesian border , and to protect population centres .

 However , by the time the Australian battalion deployed the British had decided on more aggressive action , crossing the border into Kalimantan to obtain information and conduct ambushes to force the Indonesians to remain on the defensive , under the codename Operation Claret .

 3 RAR deployed to Borneo in March 1965 , and served in Sarawak until the end of July , operating on both sides of the border .

 4 RAR served a less @-@ eventful tour between April and August 1966 , and also operated over the border , successfully clashing with the Indonesians on a number of occasions .

 Other units included artillery and engineers , while a number of RAN ships were involved in shelling Indonesian positions in Borneo and in repelling infiltrators in the Singapore Strait .

 The RAAF played a relatively minor role , although it would have been used far more extensively had the war escalated .

 Operations in Borneo were extremely sensitive and they received little press coverage in Australia , while official acknowledgement of involvement in cross @-@ border missions only occurred in 1996 .

 3 @ , @ 500 Australians served during Confrontation ; casualties included 16 dead , with seven killed in action and eight wounded .

 Australia 's involvement in the Vietnam War was driven largely by the rise of communism in Southeast Asia after the Second World War , and the fear of its spread which developed in Australia during the 1950s and early 1960s .

 As a consequence , Australia supported South Vietnam throughout the early 1960s .

 In 1961 and 1962 , the leader of the South Vietnamese government , Ngo Dinh Diem , asked for assistance from the US and its allies in response to a growing insurgency supported by communist North Vietnam .

 Australia offered 30 military advisors from the Australian Army Training Team Vietnam , which became known simply as " The Team " .

 They arrived in July and August 1962 , beginning Australia 's involvement in the war .

 In March 1966 , the Australian government announced the deployment of a brigade @-@ sized unit — the 1st Australian Task Force ( 1 ATF ) — to replace 1 RAR .

 Included were a large number of conscripts , under the increasingly controversial National Service Scheme .

 Consisting of two infantry battalions as well as armour , aviation , artillery and other support arms , the task force was assigned primary responsibility for its own area and was based at Nui Dat , in Phuoc Tuy Province .

 Included were the Iroquois helicopters of No. 9 Squadron RAAF .

 18 Australians were killed and 24 wounded , while 245 communist dead were later recovered from the battlefield .

 The battle allowed the Australians to gain dominance over Phuoc Tuy Province and 1 ATF was not fundamentally challenged again .

 1 ATF was subsequently deployed astride infiltration routes leading to Saigon to interdict communist movement against the capital as part of Operation Coburg during the 1968 Tet Offensive and later during the Battle of Coral – Balmoral in May and June 1968 .

 During 26 days of fighting Australian casualties included 25 killed and 99 wounded , while communist casualties included 267 killed confirmed by body count , 60 possibly killed , 7 wounded and 11 captured .

 Other significant Australian actions included Binh Ba in June 1969 , Hat Dich in late @-@ December 1968 and early 1969 and Long Khanh in June 1971 .

 A third RAAF unit , No. 2 Squadron RAAF , flying Canberra bombers , was sent in 1967 , and four RAN destroyers joined US patrols in the waters off North Vietnam .

 The Australian withdrawal effectively commenced in November 1970 .

 Meanwhile , the advisors remained to train South Vietnamese troops until withdrawn on 18 December 1972 by the newly elected Labor government of Gough Whitlam .

 The last Australian forces were finally withdrawn in 1973 .

 Four were awarded the Victoria Cross .

 = = Post @-@ Vietnam era = =

 Although the importance of ' joint ' warfare had been highlighted during Second World War when Australian naval , ground and air units frequently served as part of single commands , the absence of a central authority continued to result in poor co @-@ ordination between the services in the post @-@ war era , with each organising and operating on the basis of a different military doctrine .

 The need for an integrated command structure received more emphasis during the Australian military 's experiences in the Vietnam War .

 In 1973 , the Secretary of the Department of Defence , Arthur Tange , submitted a report to the Government that recommended the unification of the separate departments supporting each service into a single department and the creation of the post of Chief of the Defence Force Staff .

 Today , the ADF is headquartered at Russell Offices in Canberra and is divided into Air , Land , Maritime and Special Operations Commands .

 In addition , Northern Command is based in Darwin , and is responsible for operations in Northern Australia .

 Until the 1970s , Australia 's military strategy centred on the concept of Forward Defence , in which the role of Australian military and naval forces were to co @-@ operate with Allied forces to counter threats in Australia 's region .

 In line with this goal , the ADF was restructured to increase its ability to strike at enemy forces from Australian bases and to counter raids on continental Australia .

 This was achieved by increasing the capabilities of the RAN and RAAF , and relocating regular Army units to Northern Australia .

 During this time the ADF had no military units on operational deployment outside Australia .

 While broadly successful , this deployment highlighted the need for the ADF to improve its capability to rapidly respond to unforeseen events .

 During this period Australia continued to retain forces in Malaysia as part of the Five Power Defence Arrangements ( FPDA ) agreed in 1971 to defend it in the event of external attack , with this commitment initially including significant air , ground and naval forces .

 Airforce and Navy units were also involved in tracking Soviet ship and submarine movements in the region .

 Since then the Orions have continued to participate in maritime security operations as part of Operation Gateway , conducting patrols over the Indian Ocean , Strait of Malacca and South China Sea .

 Australia was a member of the international coalition which contributed military forces to the 1991 Gulf War , deploying a naval task group of two warships , a support ship and a clearance diving team ; in total about 750 personnel .

 Some ADF personnel serving on exchange with British and American units did see combat , and a few were later decorated for their actions .

 A number of Australian airmen and ground crew posted to or on exchange with US and British air forces subsequently participated in enforcing no @-@ fly zones imposed over Iraq between 1991 and 2003 .

 While most of these deployments involved only small numbers of specialists , several led to the deployment of hundreds of personnel .

 The 1996 election of the Howard Liberal government resulted in significant reforms to the ADF 's force structure and role , with the new government 's defence strategy placed less singular emphasis on defending Australia from direct attack and greater emphasis on working in co @-@ operation with regional states and Australia 's allies to manage potential security threats in recognition of Australia 's global security interests .

 In line with this new focus , the ADF 's force structure changed in an attempt to increase the proportion of combat units to support units and to improve the ADF 's combat effectiveness .

 = = New Millennium = =

 The former @-@ Portuguese colony of East Timor was invaded by Indonesia in 1975 , however , following years of violent struggle the new Indonesian government of President B.J. Habibie subsequently agreed to allow the East Timorese to vote on autonomy in 1999 .

 The United Nations Mission in East Timor ( UNAMET ) was established to organise and conduct the vote , which was held at the end of August 1999 and resulted with 78 @.@ 5 % of voters deciding in favour of independence .

 Unable to control the violence , Indonesia subsequently agreed to the deployment of a multinational peacekeeping force .

 Australia , which had contributed police to UNAMET , organised and led an international military coalition , known as the International Force for East Timor ( INTERFET ) , a non @-@ UN force operating in accordance with UN resolutions .

 Under the overall command of Australian Major General Peter Cosgrove , INTERFET began arriving on 12 September 1999 and was tasked with restoring peace and security , protecting and supporting UNAMET , and facilitating humanitarian assistance operations .

 The hand @-@ over of command of military operations from INTERFET to UNTAET was completed on 28 February 2000 .

 During these operations Australian forces regularly clashed with pro @-@ Indonesian militia and on a number of occasions Indonesian forces as well , especially along the border with West Timor .

 Significant actions occurred in Suai , Mota 'ain and at Aidabasalala in October 1999 .

 However , with the security situation stabilised the bulk of the Australian and UN forces were withdrawn by 2005 .

 Two Australians died from non @-@ battle related causes , while a number were wounded in action .

 The unexpected deployment to East Timor in 1999 led to significant changes in Australian defence policy and to an enhancement of the ADF 's ability to conduct operations outside Australia .

 This successful deployment was the first time a large Australian military force had operated outside of Australia since the Vietnam War and revealed shortcomings in the ADF 's ability to mount and sustain such operations .

 In response , the 2000 Defence White Paper placed a greater emphasis on preparing the ADF for overseas deployments .

 Australian forces were involved in a number skirmishes during this time , including a heavy clash with rebels commanded by Alfredo Reinado at Same on 4 March 2007 .

 Following a drawdown , the International Stabilisation Force commenced withdrawing from Timor @-@ Leste in November 2012 , a process which was completed in April 2013 .

 A Special Operations

 Task Group was deployed to support the Reconstruction Taskforce in April 2007 .

 A modest force remained in Afghanistan over this time and was involved in counter @-@ insurgency operations in Uruzgan Province in conjunction United States and other coalition forces , including the Dutch prior to their withdrawal .

 Also included is the deployment of one of the RAN 's frigates to the Arabian Sea and Gulf of Aden on counter piracy and maritime interdiction duties .

 Casualties include 41 killed and 256 wounded , while another Australian also died serving with the British Army .

 Four Australians have been awarded the Victoria Cross for Australia , the first such decorations in forty years .

 Following a drawdown in forces , the last combat troops were withdrawn on 15 December 2013 ; however , approximately 400 personnel remain in Afghanistan as trainers and advisers , and are stationed in Kandahar and Kabul .

 Australian forces later joined British and American forces during the 2003 invasion of Iraq .

 Major force elements included special forces , rotary and fixed wing aviation and naval units .

 Army units included elements from the SASR and 4th Battalion , Royal Australian Regiment ( Commando ) , a CH @-@ 47 Chinook detachment and a number of other specialist units .

 RAN units included the amphibious ship HMAS Kanimbla and the frigates HMAS Darwin and HMAS Anzac , while the RAAF deployed 14 F / A @-@ 18 Hornets from No. 75 Squadron , a number of AP @-@ 3C Orions and C @-@ 130 Hercules .

 The Australian Special Forces

 The Iraqi military quickly proved no match for coalition military power , and with their defeat the bulk of Australian forces were withdrawn .

 The AMTG later became the Overwatch Battle Group ( West ) ( OBG ( W ) ) , following the hand back of Al Muthanna province to Iraqi control .

 Force levels peaked at 1 @ , @ 400 personnel in May 2007 including the OBG ( W ) in Southern Iraq , the Security Detachment in Baghdad and the Australian Army Training Team — Iraq .

 A RAN frigate was based in the North Persian Gulf , while RAAF assets included C @-@ 130H Hercules and AP @-@ 3C elements .

 Low @-@ level operations continued , however , with a small Australian force of 80 soldiers remaining in Iraq to protect the Australian Embassy in Baghdad as part of SECDET under Operation Kruger .

 SECDET was finally withdrawn in August 2011 , and was replaced by a private military company which took over responsibility for providing security for Australia 's diplomatic presence in Iraq .

 A further 27 personnel were wounded .

 Two officers remained in Iraq attached to the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq as part of Operation Riverbank .

 This operation concluded in November 2013 .

 In June 2014 a small number of SASR personnel were deployed to Iraq to protect the Australian embassy when the security of Baghdad was threatened by the 2014 Northern Iraq offensive .

 In late September 2014 an Air Task Group ( ATG ) and Special Operations Task Group ( SOTG ) were deployed to Al Minhad Air Base in the United Arab Emirates as part of the coalition to combat Islamic State forces in Iraq .

 The SOTG is tasked with operations to advise and assist Iraqi Security Forces , and was deployed to Iraq after a legal framework covering their presence in the country was agreed between the Australian and Iraqi Governments .

 It began moving into Iraq in early November .

 In April 2015 a 300 @-@ strong unit known as Task Group Taji was deployed to Iraq to train the regular Iraqi Security Forces .

 Airstrikes were extended to Syria in September 2015 .

 = = Peacekeeping = =

 Australia 's involvement in international peacekeeping operations has been diverse , and included participation in both United Nations sponsored missions , as well as those as part of ad @-@ hoc coalitions .

 The operational tempo started increasing in the mid @-@ 1990s , when Australia became involved in a series of high @-@ profile operations , deploying significantly larger combat units in support of a number of missions including Cambodia , Rwanda , Somalia , East Timor , and the Solomon Islands .

 = = Military statistics = =

 = Ward Churchill =

 Ward LeRoy Churchill ( born 1947 ) is an American author and political activist .

 His work features controversial and provocative views , written in a direct , often confrontational style .

 In March 2005 the University of Colorado began investigating allegations that Churchill had engaged in research misconduct ; it reported in June 2006 that he had done so .

 Churchill was fired on July 24 , 2007 , leading to a claim by some scholars that he was fired because of the " Little Eichmanns " comment .

 Churchill filed a lawsuit against the University of Colorado for unlawful termination of employment .

 In April 2009 a Denver jury found that Churchill was wrongly fired , awarding him $ 1 in damages .

 In February 2010 , Churchill appealed the judge 's decision .

 In November 2010 , the Colorado Court of Appeals upheld the lower @-@ court 's ruling .

 In September 10 , 2012 , the Colorado Supreme Court upheld the lower courts ' decisions in favor of the University of Colorado .

 On April 1 , 2013 , the United States Supreme Court declined to hear the case .

 In a February 2014 interview , Churchill commented that after living more than forty years in the northern plains / Colorado region , he had relocated to Atlanta , Georgia in 2013 .

 Churchill also stated that he had a half @-@ dozen uncompleted books which he intended to finish and publish in the next three years .

 = = Early life and education = =

 Churchill was born in Urbana , Illinois , to Jack LeRoy Churchill and Maralyn Lucretia Allen .

 His parents divorced before he was two , and he grew up in Elmwood , where he attended local schools .

 In 1966 , he was drafted into the United States Army .

 On his 1980 resume , he said he served as a public @-@ information specialist who " wrote and edited the battalion newsletter and wrote news releases .

 "

 In a 1987 profile on Churchill , the Denver Post reported that he was drafted , went to paratrooper school , then volunteered for Vietnam , where he served a 10 @-@ month tour as Long Range Reconnaissance Patrol ( LRRP ) , one of a six @-@ man team sent out to track down the enemy .

 The Post article also reported that Churchill was politically radicalized as a result of his experiences in Vietnam .

 In 2005 , the Denver Post reported that Churchill 's military records show he was trained as a film projectionist and light truck driver , but they do not reflect paratrooper school or LRRP training .

 The 75th Ranger Regiment Association found no record of Churchill having been a member of the unit , or a LRRP team .

 = = Career = =

 In 1978 , Churchill began working at the University of Colorado Boulder as an affirmative action officer in the university administration .

 He also lectured on American Indian issues in the ethnic studies program .

 In 1990 , the University of Colorado hired him as an associate professor , although he did not possess the academic doctorate usually required for the position .

 He has long been interested in issues associated with the Dawes Act , which broke up the communal reservation lands and assigned plots to individual households .

 Some of his published works address these issues , which he has interpreted as part of the federal government 's policy of genocide against Native Americans .

 In 1995 Churchill discussed his views with David Barsamian in an interview :

 You could say that five hundred years ago was the basis of blood quantum in Ibero @-@ America .

 At that point they began to define Indian as being someone who was demonstrably and documentably of at least one @-@ quarter by quantum blood indigenous in a given group .

 You had to be a quarter Cheyenne or a quarter Arapaho or hopefully a quarter and a quarter .

 The reason for this was quite clear .

 They were identifying Indians for purposes of allotting them individual parcels of land in the existing reservation base at that point .

 In 1996 , Churchill moved to the new Ethnic Studies Department of the University of Colorado .

 In 1997 , he was promoted to full professor .

 He was selected as chairman of the department in June 2002 .

 On May 16 , 2006 , the Investigative Committee of the Standing Committee on Research Misconduct at the University of Colorado concluded that Churchill had committed multiple counts of academic misconduct , specifically plagiarism , fabrication , and falsification .

 = = Genealogy and Tribal affiliation = =

 In 1992 , Churchill wrote elsewhere that he is one @-@ eighth Creek and one @-@ sixteenth Cherokee .

 In a statement dated May 9 , 2005 , and posted on its website , the United Keetoowah Band initially said ,

 Two days later , the United Keetoowah Band replaced its statement and acknowledged Churchill 's " alleged ancestry " of being Cherokee :

 The website statement further clarified that Churchill " was not eligible for tribal membership due to the fact that he does not possess a ' Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood ( CDIB ) " , and the associate membership did not entitle an individual to voting rights or enrollment in the tribe .

 Churchill has never asked for CDIB certification , and finds the idea of being " vetted " by the US government offensive .

 In June 1994 , the United Keetoowah Band had voted to stop awarding associate memberships .

 Such honorary associate membership recognizes an individual 's assistance to the tribe , but it has nothing to do with Indian ancestry , and it does not entitle an individual to vote in the tribe as a member .

 The Keetoowah Band states that Churchill still holds the associate membership and it has not been rescinded .

 In a separate interview , Ernestine Berry , formerly on the tribe 's enrollment committee and four years on its council , said that Churchill had never fulfilled a promise to help the tribe .

 In June 2005 , the Rocky Mountain News published an article about Churchill 's genealogy and family history .

 It " turned up no evidence of a single Indian ancestor " among 142 direct ancestors [ of Churchill 's ] identified from records .

 The News found that some of Churchill 's accounts of where his ancestors had lived did not agree with documented records .

 Numerous members of Churchill 's extended family have longstanding family legends of Indian ancestry among ancestors ; but , none was confirmed among the 142 direct forebears of Churchill who were identified .

 Documents in Churchill 's university personnel file show that he was granted tenure in a " special opportunity position . "

 Some of Churchill 's Native American critics , such as Vernon Bellecourt ( White Earth Ojibwe ) and Suzan Shown Harjo ( Southern Cheyenne @-@ Muscogee Creek ) , argue that his assertion of Native American ancestry without the ability to prove it might constitute misrepresentation and grounds for termination .

 The University has said that it does not hire on the basis of ethnicity .

 The University of Colorado 's Research Misconduct Committee conducted a preliminary investigation into whether Churchill misrepresented his ethnicity to " add credibility and public acceptance to his scholarship . "

 The committee concluded that the allegation was not " appropriate for further investigation under the definition of research misconduct .

 "

 In a 2005 interview in The Rocky Mountain News , Churchill said , " I have never been confirmed as having one @-@ quarter blood , and never said I was .

 I have never claimed to be goddamned Sitting Bull . "

 = = = Blood quantum = = =

 Churchill has responded to requests for verification of his claimed Indian heritage in various ways , including attacking the blood quantum upon which some Native American tribes establish their membership requirements .

 Churchill argues that the United States instituted blood quantum laws based upon rules of descendancy in order to further goals of personal enrichment and political expediency .

 For decades in his writings , Churchill has argued that blood quantum laws have an inherent genocidal purpose .

 He says ,

 He has been accused of using his interpretation of the Dawes Act to attack tribal governments that would not recognize him as a member .

 = = Writing = =

 Churchill has written on American Indian history and culture , and speaks about genocide inflicted on the indigenous people of the Americas by European settlers and what he describes as the repression of native peoples that continues to this day .

 Some have been reprinted with updates .

 He has written 51 book chapters , 3 law reviews , and 50 scholarly essays ; 27 of these were refereed .

 He has edited 4 volumes and co @-@ edited 3 more .

 The investigation also noted that " he has decided to publish largely in alternative presses or journals , not in the university presses or mainstream peer @-@ reviewed journals often favored by more conventional academics . "

 In addition to his academic writing , Churchill has written for several general readership magazines of political opinion .

 In 1986 , Churchill wrote an essay titled Pacifism as Pathology : Notes on an American Pseudopraxis criticizing pacifist politics within the U.S. left as being hypocritical , de facto racist and ineffectual .

 The book included a preface by Ed Mead , a new introduction to the essay by Churchill and a commentary by Mike Ryan .

 The book sparked much debate in leftist circles and inspired more aggressive tactics within the anti @-@ globalization movement in the following few years .

 Agents of Repression ( 1988 ) , co @-@ authored by Jim Vander Wall , describes what the authors claim was a secret war against the Black Panther Party and American Indian Movement carried out during the late 1960s and ' 70s by the FBI under the COINTELPRO program .

 The COINTELPRO Papers ( 1990 ; reissued 2002 ) , also co @-@ authored with Jim Vander Wall , examines a series of original FBI memos that detail the Bureau 's activities against various leftist groups , from the U.S. Communist Party in the 1950s to activists concerned with Central American issues in the 1980s .

 In Fantasies of the Master Race ( 1992 ) , Churchill examines the portrayal of American Indians and the use of American Indian symbols in popular American culture .

 Churchill calls author Carlos Castaneda 's claims of revealing the teachings of a Yaqui Indian shaman , the " greatest hoax since Piltdown Man . "

 Struggle for the Land ( 1993 ; reissued 2002 ) is a collection of essays in which Churchill chronicles what he describes as the U.S. government 's systematic exploitation of Native lands and the killing or displacement of American Indians .

 He details Native American efforts in the 19th and 20th centuries to prevent defoliation and industrial practices such as surface mining .

 Churchill 's Indians Are Us ? ( 1994 ) , a sequel to Fantasies of the Master Race , further explores American Indian issues in popular culture and politics .

 He examines the movie Black Robe , the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation killings , the prosecution of Leonard Peltier , sports mascots , the Indian Arts and Crafts Act of 1990 , and blood quantum laws , calling them tools of genocide .

 John P. LaVelle of the University of New Mexico School of Law published a review of Indians Are Us ? in The American Indian Quarterly .

 Professor LaVelle , an enrolled member of the Santee Sioux Nation , states that Indians Are Us ? twists historical facts and is hostile toward Indian tribes .

 It was in this book that Churchill first made the claim that the United States distributed " smallpox @-@ infested blankets " to Indian tribes , a claim which he repeated several times over the next decade .

 The claim has been criticized as a falsification .

 Churchill has , however , received support from some scholars .

 In his introduction to this volume , Howard Zinn lauds " the emergence of a new generation of Native @-@ American scholars " and describes Churchill 's writing as " powerful , eloquent , unsparing of cant and deception " .

 Churchill 's A Little Matter of Genocide ( 1997 ) is a survey of ethnic cleansing in the Americas from 1492 to the present .

 In Perversions of Justice ( 2002 ) , Churchill argues that the U.S. ' s legal system was adapted to gain control over Native American people .

 Churchill 's controversial essay on 9 / 11 was expanded into a book @-@ length manuscript , published as On the Justice of Roosting Chickens : Reflections on the Consequences of U.S. Imperial Arrogance and Criminality ( 2003 ) by AK Press .

 The book features two other chapters , one listing US military interventions , another listing what Churchill believes to be US violations of international law .

 The original essay takes the " roosting chickens " of the title from a 1963 Malcolm X speech , in which Malcolm X linked the assassination of U.S. president John F. Kennedy to the violence which Kennedy perpetuated as " merely a case of chickens coming home to roost . " Churchill 's essays in this book address the worldwide forms of resistance that he posits were and continue to be provoked by U.S. imperialism of the 20th and 21st centuries .

 = = Activism on Native American issues = =

 In 1993 , he and other local AIM leaders , including Russell Means , Glenn T. Morris , Robert Robideau , and David Hill , broke with the national AIM leadership , including Dennis Banks and the brothers Vernon and Clyde Bellecourt , claiming that all AIM chapters are autonomous .

 The AIM Grand Governing Council is based in Minneapolis and retains the name of the national group .

 It says that the schism arose when Means , Churchill , Glenn T. Morris and others openly supported the Miskito Indian group Misurasata , who were allied with the anti @-@ revolutionary , CIA @-@ backed Contras .

 It was a year in which other FBI informants had been discovered in AIM .

 On November 3 , 1999 , Means held a press conference in Denver , Colorado in which he accused the Bellecourt brothers of complicity in Aquash 's death , and named three lower @-@ level AIM members involved in her death : Arlo Looking Cloud , John Graham , and Theda Nelson Clark .

 This was the first time that an AIM leader active at the time of the Aquash murder had publicly accused AIM of having been involved .

 Means attributed the split in AIM to divisions in the aftermath of Aquash 's murder .

 The schism continued , with the national AIM leadership claiming that the local AIM leaders , such as Churchill , are tools of the U.S. government used against other American Indians .

 Bellecourt said he complained to the University of Colorado about this as early as 1986 .

 Churchill has been a leader of Colorado AIM 's annual protests in Denver against the Columbus Day holiday and its associated parade .

 Colorado AIM 's leadership has come into conflict with some leaders in the Denver Italian American community , the main supporters of the parade .

 As early as 2004 , Churchill had claimed that such parades are unconstitutional , arguing that the Ninth Amendment to the Constitution provides Native Americans with a right not to be subjected to such displays , overriding the First Amendment rights of non @-@ Native Americans .

 = = 9 / 11 essay controversy = =

 In it , he argued that the September 11 attacks were provoked by U.S. foreign policy .

 He compared the role of financial workers at the World Trade Center in " ongoing genocidal American imperialism " to the role played by Adolf Eichmann in organizing the Holocaust .

 In 2005 , this essay was widely publicized when Hamilton College invited Churchill to speak .

 This led to both condemnations of Churchill and counter @-@ accusations of McCarthyism by Churchill and supporters .

 A documentary called Shouting Fire : Stories from the Edge of Free Speech , broadcast on HBO , prominently features Churchill 's case in addressing the issues of free speech and First Amendment rights .

 = = Research misconduct investigation = =

 The controversy attracted increased academic attention to Churchill 's research , which had already been criticized by the legal scholar John LaVelle and historian Guenter Lewy .

 On May 16 , 2006 the University released their findings ; the Investigative Committee agreed unanimously that Churchill had engaged in " serious research misconduct " , including falsification , fabrication , and two of the three allegations of plagiarism .

 The committee was divided on the appropriate level of sanctions .

 The Standing Committee on Research Misconduct accepted the findings of the Investigative Committee but also disagreed on what sanctions should be imposed .

 Churchill 's appeal against his proposed dismissal was considered by a panel of the University 's Privilege and Tenure Committee , which found that two of the seven findings of misconduct did not constitute dismissible offences .

 On July 24 , 2007 , the University regents voted seven to two to uphold all seven of the findings of research misconduct , overruling the recommendation of Privilege and Tenure panel that two be dismissed .

 By a vote of eight to one , the regents determined to fire Churchill .

 The next day , Churchill filed a lawsuit in state court claiming that the firing was retribution for his expressing politically unpopular views .

 The jury in Churchill 's suit for reinstatement weighed the university 's claims of academic misconduct per jury instructions it received in the case .

 "

 On April 1 , 2009 , a Colorado jury found that Churchill had been wrongly fired , and awarded $ 1 in damages .

 It 's just that [ Churchill 's attorney ]

 On July 7 , 2009 , Judge Naves found that the defendants ( university ) were entitled to quasi @-@ judicial immunity as a matter of law , vacated the jury verdict and determined that the University did not owe Churchill any financial compensation .

 Naves denied Churchill 's request for reinstatement at CU .

 Churchill appealed both decisions .

 On November 24 , 2010 , a three @-@ judge panel of the Colorado Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court 's decision .

 In February 2011 , Churchill filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the Colorado Supreme Court .

 In late May 2011 , the Colorado Supreme Court agreed to hear his case .

 Court records indicate that oral arguments began June 7 , 2012 .

 On September 10 , 2012 , the court ruled that the University had " quasi @-@ judicial immunity " , upholding the trial court 's ruling .

 On April 1 , 2013 , the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal from Churchill .

 = = Honors = =

 1992 , Alfred University awarded him an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters .

 = = Works = =

 Books , as editor

 Marxism and Native Americans .

 Sharon Venne , ed . ( 1997 ) .

 Islands in Captivity : The International Tribunal on the Rights of Indigenous Hawaiians .

 Natsu Saito , ed . ( 2006 ) .

 Confronting The Crime Of Silence : Evidence Of U.S. War Crimes In Indochina .

 Books , as author and co @-@ author :

 Culture versus Economism : Essays on Marxism in the Multicultural Arena. with Elisabeth Lloyd .

 Indigena Press . 1984 .

 Agents of Repression : The FBI 's Secret Wars Against the Black Panther Party and the American Indian Movement .

 with Jim Vander Wall .

 The COINTELPRO Papers : Documents from the FBI 's Secret War Against Domestic Dissent . with Jim Vander Wall .

 Fantasies of the Master Race : Literature , Cinema , and the Colonization of American Indians .

 AK Press . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 904859 @-@ 12 @-@ 3 .

 Struggle for the Land : Indigenous Resistance to Genocide , Ecocide and Expropriation in Contemporary North America .

 Indians Are Us ? : Culture and Genocide in Native North America .

 Since Predator Came : Notes from the Struggle for American Indian Liberation .

 Churchill , Ward ( 1996 ) .

 Pacifism as Pathology : Reflections on the Role of Armed Struggle in North America .

 with Mike Ryan ( introduction by Ed Mead ) .

 Arbeiter Ring . 1998 . ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 894037 @-@ 07 @-@ 5 .

 A Little Matter of Genocide .

 Draconian Measures : The History of FBI Political Repression .

 Perversions of Justice : Indigenous Peoples and Angloamerican Law .

 On the Justice of Roosting Chickens : Reflections on the Consequences of U.S. Imperial Arrogance and Criminality .

 Kill the Indian , Save the Man : The Genocidal Impact of American Indian Residential Schools .

 Speaking Truth in the Teeth of Power : Lectures on Globalization , Colonialism , and Native North America .

 To Disrupt , Discredit And Destroy : The FBI 's Secret War Against The Black Panther Party .

 Routledge . 2005 . ISBN 978 @-@ 0 @-@ 415 @-@ 92957 @-@ 8 .

 Articles

 Z Papers 1 ( 3 ) . Archived from the original on October 14 , 2007 .

 First published as " Crimes Against Humanity " in Margaret Anderson and Patricia Hill ( eds . ) ( 1994 ) .

 Race , Class and Gender : An Anthology . Belmont , CA : Wadsworth . pp. 366 – 73 . Also published under the titles " The Indian Chant and the Tomahawk Chop " and " Using Indian Names as Mascots Harms Native Americans " .

 Churchill , Ward ( Winter – Spring 2003 ) . " An American Holocaust ?

 Audio and video

 Doing Time :

 The Politics of Imprisonment , audio CD of a lecture , recorded at the Doing Time Conference at the University of Winnipeg , September 2000 ( AK Press , 2001 , ISBN 978 @-@ 1 @-@ 902593 @-@ 47 @-@ 0 )

 US Off The Planet ! :

 An Evening In Eugene With Ward Churchill And Chellis Glendinning , VHS video recorded July 17 , 2001 ( Cascadia Media Collective , 2002 )

 Pacifism and Pathology in the American Left , 2003 audio CD recorded at an AK Press warehouse in Oakland ( AK Press Audio )

 Z Mag Ward Churchill Audio August 10 , 2003 and earlier

 Churchill Speaks About Academic Freedom – Free Speech Radio News February 9 , 2005

 Ward Churchill Under Fire – Free Speech Radio News , February 3 , 2005 .

 The Justice of Roosting Chickens : Ward Churchill Speaks

 A Little Matter of Genocide : Linking U.S. Aggression Abroad to the Domestic Repression of Indigenous Peoples " , recorded in North Battleford , Saskatchewan on March 19 , 2005

 Debate with David Horowitz and Ward Churchill at George Washington University April 6 , 2006

 Retrieved 2006 @-@ 07 @-@ 02 .

 Retrieved 2006 @-@ 07 @-@ 02 . Video and audio ( excerpt )

 Retrieved 2006 @-@ 07 @-@ 02 .

 = = Artwork = =

 He uses historical photographs as source material for works .

 In the early 1990s at Santa Fe Indian Market , Churchill protested the passage of the 1990 Indian Arts and Crafts Act .

 Some of Churchill 's pieces may infringe copyrights .

 Other copies are available online for purchase .

 Churchill says that , when he produced Winter Attack , he publicly acknowledged that it was based on Mails ' work .

 The online journal Artnet mentions Churchill 's artwork and the controversy surrounding its originality .

 It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 4 , 2012 .

 In the episode , Bart is punished by Homer after causing trouble .

 He gets revenge on his father by spray @-@ painting images of him with the word " dope " all over Springfield .

 Street artist Shepard Fairey encounters

 Bart one night and offers him a gallery show of Bart 's artworks .

 However , Chief Wiggum suddenly appears during the show and arrests Bart for covering the town in graffiti .

 It turns out that Fairey is an undercover officer working for Wiggum .

 The episode references the 2010 street art documentary Exit Through the Gift Shop by graffiti artist Banksy , and features guest appearances from street artists Ron English , Kenny Scharf , and Robbie Conal as themselves .

 Fairey , who is a long @-@ time fan of The Simpsons , also guest starred in the episode as himself .

 Since then , the episode has received praise from television critics for its opening sequence , which parodies the opening sequence of the medieval fantasy television series Game of Thrones .

 = = Plot = =

 As a birthday gift for Marge , Homer buys a blender designed by television chef Paula Paul .

 Homer is impressed by the store and says he will not be shopping at the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart any more .

 Apu , who is there to spy , overhears Homer and the two engage in a fight until the security guards grab hold of Apu and take him away .

 At the signing , Homer tells Paula that Marge is a big fan of hers .

 Paula decides that she will call Marge live during her upcoming show to wish her a happy birthday .

 The rabbit chews through the phone lines in the Simpsons ' home , causing Marge to miss Paula 's call .

 Paula becomes furious at Marge for not answering the phone as she embarrassed herself on her show .

 Homer punishes Bart by locking him up in the rabbit 's cage .

 To get revenge on Homer , Bart goes around Springfield spray @-@ painting graffiti of Homer 's face and the word " dope " .

 When his work appears on the television news , it encourages Bart to create even more graffiti in the town .

 Street artists Shepard Fairey , Ron English , Kenny Scharf , and Robbie Conal encounter Bart one night when he is making some graffiti .

 The four tell Bart that they are impressed by his work and would like to showcase his art in a gallery show , at first Bart is unsure , but Bart remembers how Homer treated him , and then agrees .

 Meanwhile , the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart suffers because of the competition from Swapper Jack 's .

 Apu ends up attempting to rob Swapper Jack 's in a desperate measure , but the cashier ( Snake Jailbird ) convinces him to hand over the gun .

 Later , Apu is about to shut down the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart when his wife Manjula tells him that Swapper Jack 's is closing because it was discovered they were selling monkey meat imported from Brazil as chicken .

 Homer initially refuses to attend Bart 's show because he discovers the artwork is an insult to him , but changes his mind after Bart apologizes and writes " I 'm sorry " on the hood of Homer 's car .

 At the show , Chief Wiggum and the Springfield Police Department suddenly appear to arrest Bart for making graffiti throughout the town .

 Instead , he is punished by once again being locked up in the rabbit cage .

 When Bart tells Wiggum that he has to go to the bathroom , Wiggum covers the cage with the blanket and finds Bart gone when he removes the blanket from the cage .

 = = Production = =

 It spoofs the debated status of street art as a true form of art .

 The title is a reference to Exit Through the Gift Shop , a 2010 street art documentary by graffiti artist Banksy who produced the opening sequence of an earlier Simpsons episode titled " MoneyBART " ( 2010 ) .

 Wiggum asks who would be stupid enough to pay for work that an amateur puts up for free in public , and the answer is , as in Banksy ’ s movie , the very wealthy , here represented by Mr. Burns . "

 Fairey wrote on his website that " Part of being on The Simpsons , is you ’ re being honored as a reference point in culture . "

 This was Fairey 's first acting performance .

 The traditional Simpsons opening sequence was replaced in this episode with a redesigned version that spoofed the opening sequence of the HBO medieval fantasy series Game of Thrones .

 The Game of Thrones opening shows the various locations featured in the series on a three @-@ dimensional map of the fictional continent Westeros .

 In the Simpsons opening , these locations were substituted with places in Springfield , and The Wall was replaced with the Simpson family 's couch .

 The theme song featured in the Game of Thrones opening sequence was arranged by The Simpsons composer Alf Clausen and used in the Simpsons opening as well .

 Nicholas McKaig , known for uploading a cappella covers of famous songs on YouTube , performed the Simpsons theme song over the closing credits of " Exit Through the Kwik @-@ E @-@ Mart " .

 He was recruited after a staff member of the show saw his cover of the Simpsons theme on YouTube .

 = = Release = =

 It was watched by approximately 5 @.@ 09 million people during this broadcast , and in the demographic for adults aged 18 – 49 , the episode received a 2 @.@ 5 Nielsen rating and a seven percent share .

 The episode curdles a bit while looking for a sweet ending , but it is otherwise solid enough .

 " Critics have praised the opening sequence that parodies Game of Thrones .

 Tim Surette of TV.com called it " one minute of genius " , and MTV 's Brandon Freeberg wrote : " Congratulations are in order for Matt Groening and his staff for really knocking this one out of the park .

 IGN 's Eric Goldman commented :

 " Ah , The Simpsons .

 Always there for us with clever / loving parody of something we all love .

 "

 = The Boat Race 2008 =

 The 154th Boat Race took place on 29 March 2008 .

 Oxford won the race .

 Oxford 's crew featured the oldest competitor in Boat Race history .

 The race took place in very difficult weather conditions – strong winds and heavy rain – resulting in the slowest winning time in over sixty years .

 Oxford won by six lengths , the largest margin of victory since the 2004 race .

 Oxford 's Isis beat Cambridge 's Goldie in the reserve race , while Oxford won the Women 's Boat Race .

 = = Background = =

 The Boat Race is a side @-@ by @-@ side rowing competition between the University of Oxford ( sometimes referred to as the " Dark Blues " ) and the University of Cambridge ( sometimes referred to as the " Light Blues " ) .

 Cambridge went into the race as reigning champions , having beaten Oxford by over a length in the previous year 's race and the overall lead , with 79 victories to Oxford 's 73 .

 The race was sponsored by Xchanging for the fourth time .

 The first Women 's Boat Race took place in 1927 , but did not become an annual fixture until the 1960s .

 The reserve race , contested between Oxford 's Isis boat and Cambridge 's Goldie boat has been held since 1965 .

 = = Crews = =

 Oxford 's crew weighed an average of 12 pounds ( 5 @.@ 4 kg ) more per rower than their opponents , and featured the oldest competitor in Boat Race history in 36 @-@ year @-@ old American Mike Wherley .

 = = Race = =

 Oxford took an early lead , but the boats closed on each other , and Umpire John Garrett was forced to issue a number of warnings to both coxes in an attempt to prevent a collision .

 Oxford extended their lead to pass the finishing post in 20 minutes 53 seconds , six lengths and 22 seconds ahead of their opponents .

 Oxford 's Isis beat Cambridge 's Goldie by three @-@ and @-@ a @-@ quarter lengths in the reserve race .

 Oxford won the 44th running of the Women 's Boat Race by half a length .

 = = Reaction = =

 Oxford 's Oliver Moore said " we got the rage going in the crew , and we started to kill it , we hit an awesome rhythm " .

 Cambridge coach Duncan Holland congratulated his opponents :

 Following tradition , the victorious Oxford crew tossed their cox Brodie into the Thames .

 = Fort Scott National Historic Site =

 Fort Scott National Historic Site is a historical area under the control of the United States National Park Service in Bourbon County , Kansas , United States .

 For the next quarter century , it was used as a supply base and to provide security in turbulent areas during the opening of the West to settlement , a period which included Bleeding Kansas and the American Civil War .

 It is open to visitors most days of the year .

 = = History = =

 In 1842 , Fort Scott was named after Winfield Scott , was established on the American frontier on the military road in eastern Kansas between Fort Leavenworth and Fort Gibson .

 Fort Scott became one of a chain of forts intended to protect the new settlers from the Plains Indians , as well as to protect the Indians from the settlers ' encroachment .

 The United States government intention to reserve permanent Indian lands west of the Missouri River gave way to the competition of settlers continuing to encroach on the Indian settlements .

 The Cherokee of Indian Territory ( now Oklahoma ) were upset to have Fort Wayne in their proximity .

 After some delay , the US Army decided to abandon Fort Wayne and move its soldiers to a new fort to be built between Fort Leavenworth and the site .

 The Army both wanted to placate the Cherokee ( who were supervised by the Department of Defense ) and provide more defense for white settlers and other Indians against the Osage , who had been conducting frequent raids in the area .

 On April 1 , 1842 , some soldiers of Fort Wayne left their fort and on April 22 arrived where Fort Scott would be built , in the Osage Cuestas section of modern @-@ day Kansas .

 After haggling with the Cherokees to acquire the land , the rest of Fort Wayne 's garrison left the fort on May 26 and arrived at the Fort Scott site on May 30 .

 The soldiers concentrated on building structures for lodging the men , animals , and equipment .

 These buildings were on the edges of a 350 @-@ foot ( 110 m ) parade ground .

 He had only two bricklayers and three carpenters to rely on , as there were few civilians and most of the soldiers had other duties to perform .

 Freak accidents destroyed much of the wood intended for the fort 's construction .

 As a result , only one duplex of the five planned officers quarters ( four duplexes and post commandant 's house ) was built by 1844 , and the intended enlisted barracks were not completed .

 In his 1844 inspection of the fort , Colonel George Croghan reported that , in comparison to other frontier forts , he considered Fort Scott " above average " .

 Due to the rising tensions that escalated in the Mexican @-@ American War , the US Army redeployed troops to the Southwest .

 Until the permanent structures were built , soldiers had to live in tents , which lacked comfort .

 Aside from a few whiskey peddlers and prostitutes , few civilians lived at the fort .

 The desertion rate from the fort ranged from 12 % - 16 % , due to boredom , irregular pay , and hatred for military life .

 As no combat took place near the fort , it seemed more of a frontier village than a military base .

 In 1854 the Kansas @-@ Nebraska

 Act repealed the Missouri Compromise of 1820 , which had kept slavery out of Kansas .

 Missourians in favor of slavery soon moved to Kansas to try to sway the vote of whether or not Kansas would permit slavery .

 Settlers from New England arrived equally determined to keep it out .

 Each of the two competing factions of the Bleeding Kansas conflict claimed one of the hotels at Fort Scott : Free @-@ Soil at the Fort Scott Hotel and Pro @-@ Slavery at the Western Hotel .

 Most of the residents in Fort Scott supported slavery , but those outside the town tended to the free @-@ soil side .

 During this time , there were local incidents of murder and attempted arson , typical elements of the guerrilla conflicts that were prevalent in the fighting .

 = = = Army returns = = =

 During the American Civil War , the fort was renewed as a US military post .

 In August 1861 , the Union Army took command of Fort Scott , and readied it for the war times .

 The Union Army rented the properties from the current civilian owners .

 Troops from Indiana , Iowa , Colorado , Ohio , and Wisconsin would come to the fort , and either stayed by the fort , or traveled farther , to subjugate Missouri , Arkansas , or the Indian Territory .

 Fort Scott was one of the few installations that recruited and trained black soldiers for the United States Colored Troops of the Union Army .

 A major supply depot was situated at the fort .

 Confederate general Sterling Price hoped to capture the town , but the closest the Confederate force came to the garrison was 10 miles ( 16 km ) away at Battle of Dry Wood Creek .

 On January 14 , 1870 , the Army returned with the formation of the Post of Southeast Kansas .

 The Post was based at Fort Scott , but the soldiers camped along the rail tracks , and seldom used the original fort .

 They were sent to protect the railroads and workers from settlers .

 Some of the latter feared that the railroad , which had been awarded land for development by the US Government in rights @-@ of @-@ way , would evict them from their squatter homes .

 The settlers considered the troops lackeys to the railroads , and lumped both as enemies .

 Settlers also had some continuing conflicts with Indians and insurgents using the recent Confederate cause as excuse for robbery .

 Many military buildings were razed and replaced with structures built for civilian use .

 = = Modern times = =

 With the Act of August 31 , 1965 , the National Park Service gave the city government of Fort Scott , Kansas the necessary funds and technical knowledge to restore the fort .

 On October 19 , 1978 , Fort Scott became a National Historic Site under the supervision of the National Park Service , encompassing 17 acres ( 69 @ , @ 000 m 2 ) .

 Today the fort is open throughout the year , save for Thanksgiving , Christmas , and New Years Day .

 Visitation has declined in recent years .

 = Slammiversary ( 2008 ) =

 The event commemorated TNA 's six year anniversary .

 The main event was a King of the Mountain match for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship , in which then @-@ champion Samoa Joe defended against Booker T , Christian Cage , Rhino , and Robert Roode .

 Joe won the match to retain the title .

 The card also featured a bout pitting A.J. Styles against Kurt Angle , which Styles won .

 The TNA World Tag Team Championship was defended by The Latin American Xchange ( Hernandez and Homicide ; LAX ) against Team 3D ( Brother Devon and Brother Ray ) at the event .

 LAX was the victors in the contest to retain the championship .

 A Six Woman Tag Team match was won by the team of Gail Kim , ODB , and Roxxi over The Beautiful People ( Angelina Love and Velvet Sky ) and Moose on the undercard .

 Slammiversary is remembered for Joe being the first to retain a championship in a King of the Mountain match .

 The reported figure of purchasers for the event was 20 @ , @ 000 , as reported by The Wrestling Observer Newsletter .

 After the event , an accident occurred which resulted in the death of one man and the injury of another .

 = = Production = =

 = = = Background = = =

 The fourth installment in the Slammiversary name was announced in January 2008 to take place on June 8 .

 In March 2008 , it was reported that Slammiversary would be held outside the TNA Impact !

 Zone in Orlando , Florida .

 In late @-@ March 2008 , Slammiversary was expected to be held in Tennessee .

 It also announced that the annual King of the Mountain match would be held at the event .

 Tickets for Slammiverary went on sale on April 25 .

 Slammiversary celebrates TNA 's six year anniversary , after it formed on June 19 , 2002 .

 TNA created a section covering the event on their website .

 TNA released a poster to promote the event prior featuring the tagline "

 Release the Flood by Dust for Life was used as the official theme for the show .

 Promotional material advertising the return of Abyss at the event was featured on TNA 's television program TNA Impact ! .

 The scripted wedding of Jay Lethal and SoCal Val was promoted for Slammiversary .

 This was announced on the May 15 episode of Impact ! , when Lethal proposed and Val accepted in the storyline .

 American singer Ace Young was advertised take part in the segment on the May 22 episode of Impact ! .

 On the May 29 episode of Impact ! , Lethal asked Sonjay Dutt to be his best man , to which Dutt agreed .

 Lethal 's groomsmen were announced on the June 5 episode as George Steele , Kamala , Koko B. Ware , and Jake Roberts .

 = = = Storylines = = =

 Slammiversary featured seven professional wrestling matches and one pre @-@ show match that involved different wrestlers from pre @-@ existing scripted feuds and storylines .

 Wrestlers portrayed villains , heroes , or less distinguishable characters in the scripted events that built tension and culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches .

 The main event at Slammiversary was a King of the Mountain match for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship , in which then @-@ champion Samoa

 Joe defended the title against four other competitors .

 On the May 15 episode of Impact ! ,

 Joe announced the encounter would take place at Slammiversary as well that an agreement had been made between Management Director Jim Cornette and himself on who would compete in the bout .

 The arrangement entailed that qualifying matches would take place leading to the event between four wrestlers he chose and four wrestlers Cornette chose .

 The qualifying matches were held on the May 22 and May 29 episodes of Impact ! .

 The last two qualification matches were held on the May 29 episode of Impact ! , with Rhino defeating Storm and Cage defeating Tomko .

 Kevin Nash , who played Joe 's mentor in the storyline , requested to be made the Special Guest Ringside Enforcer for the bout , which he was granted by Cornette on the May 29 episode of Impact !

 .

 The predominate storyline heading into the event was the rivalry between A.J. Styles and Kurt Angle , both members of The Angle Alliance group .

 TNA continued to build the situation with Angle attempting to reconcile with Karen on the May 15 episode of Impact ! .

 Karen refused Angle 's request on the May 22 episode of Impact ! , leading to Angle turning on and assaulting Styles later in the episode due to his jealousy of the affection Karen showed for Styles .

 On the May 29 episode of Impact ! , Cornette announced Angle versus Styles for the event .

 Angle sustained a severe neck injury in early May with several TNA officials believing Angle would not recover in time to perform at the show .

 The TNA World Tag Team Championship was defended at Slammiversary by then @-@ champions The Latin American Xchange ( Hernandez and Homicide ; LAX ) against Team 3D ( Brother Devon and Brother Ray ) .

 On the May 15 episode of Impact ! , Team 3D attacked and was scripted to injure LAX 's manager Héctor Guerrero , thus starting a rivalry between the two .

 Cornette announced a rematch from Sacrifice for the championship to take place at the show on the May 29 episode of Impact !

 .

 TNA held a Six Woman Tag Team match pitting The Beautiful People ( Angelina Love and Velvet Sky ) and Mickie Knuckles against Gail Kim , ODB , and Roxxi at Slammiversary .

 The rules of the contest involved the winner getting a championship match while the runner @-@ up had her head shaven .

 On the June 5 episode of Impact ! , Knuckles made her TNA debut aligning with The Beautiful People in assaulting Kim , ODB , and Roxxi .

 = = Event = =

 The Motor City Machine Guns won the encounter .

 = = = Miscellaneous = = =

 Slammiversary featured employees other than the wrestlers involved in the matches .

 Jeremy Borash and David Penzer were ring announcers for the event .

 Andrew Thomas , Earl Hebner , Rudy Charles , and Mark " Slick " Johnson participated as referees for the encounters .

 Lauren Thompson and Borash were used as interviewers during the event .

 The segment ended when Dutt proclaimed his love for Val in the storyline and attacked Lethal .

 Young , Steele , Roberts , Kamala , and Ware came to Lethal 's defense before Roberts placed a snake on top of an unconscious Dutt to end the segment .

 Williams was accompanied by Rhaka Khan and Scott Steiner .

 The duration of the bout was 15 minutes and 19 seconds .

 Williams wore a protective face mask due to a broken orbital bone .

 Khan and Steiner interfered in the bout several times .

 Williams won the encounter after performing his signature Canadian Destroyer maneuver by slamming Kaz head @-@ first into the mat to retain the TNA X Division Championship .

 Abyss returned after this match by aiding Kaz who was being attacked by Khan , Steiner , and Williams .

 The team of The Beautiful People and Mickie Knuckles — renamed Moose — fought the team of Gail Kim , ODB , and Roxxi in a Six Woman Tag Team match next .

 It lasted 10 minutes and 14 seconds .

 ODB won the bout for her team after running and slamming Moose against the mat back @-@ first and following with the pin .

 The TNA World Tag Team Championship was defended in the third match of the event by LAX against Team 3D .

 Héctor Guerrero and Salinas accompanied LAX to the ring .

 Salinas , Guerrero , and Team 3D 's associate Johnny Devine all interfered in the encounter .

 TNA held two $ 25 @ , @ 000 Fan Challenge segments next with then @-@ TNA Women 's Knockout Champion Awesome Kong and her manager Raisha Saeed offering fans in the crowd the chance to face Kong .

 Kong and Saeed then chose a willing participant and if they defeated Kong they won $ 25 @ , @ 000 .

 The participants chosen for these segments were predetermined , with each planted in the crowd .

 A.J. Styles fought Kurt Angle in the sixth encounter of the show next .

 The match lasted 22 minutes and 44 seconds .

 Angle was accompanied by Tomko to the ring .

 The referee forced Tomko to head to the backstage area due to the referee believing he would interfere .

 Styles attempted to perform his signature Styles Clash maneuver on Angle , which Angle countered into his signature Ankle Lock submission hold .

 Styles escaped the hold , causing Angle to crash into the referee , knocking him out in the storyline .

 Karen Angle then ran down to the ringside area and attempted to hand Angle a steel chair .

 Once Angle grabbed the chair she refused to release , allowing Styles to grab Angle and perform the Styles Clash by slamming Angle face @-@ first into the mat .

 Styles then followed with the pin attempt to win the contest .

 After the encounter , Angle and Tomko assaulted Styles .

 The main event was a King of the Mountain match for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship with Kevin Nash as Special Guest Ringside Enforcer between then @-@ champion Samoa Joe and the challengers Booker T , Christian Cage , Rhino , and Robert Roode .

 A wrestler who is pinned or made to submit is this placed in a penalty box for two minutes .

 The match is fought under no disqualification rules .

 Booker T was the first to qualify by pinning Rhino after slamming him back @-@ first into the mat with his signature Book End maneuver .

 Rhino was this placed in the penalty box .

 Roode was the next to qualify after bashing a ladder Cage held with a chair into him and following with a pin .

 Immediately afterwards , Rhino pinned Roode with a roll @-@ up pin to qualify .

 Later , Joe held Booker T in his signature Coquina Clutch submission hold when Cage ascended a padded turnbuckle and jumped off onto Booker T and Joe .

 He followed by pinning Booker T to qualify and send Booker T to the penalty box .

 When Booker T was released from the box , he attacked Nash with the title belt and then attempted to hang it .

 Joe was the last to qualify by pinning Roode after slamming him back and neck @-@ first into the mat with his signature Muscle Buster maneuver .

 Joe then hung the title belt at 19 minutes and 49 seconds to win the competition .

 = = Reception = =

 A total of 2 @ , @ 000 people attended Slammiversary , while the The Wrestling Observer Newsletter reported that 20 @ , @ 000 people bought the event .

 The 7 out of 10 was the same rating given to the 2009 edition by Chris and Bryan Sokol .

 Waldman felt that " TNA put on a strong PPV " that was in " large part to little gimmickery .

 He gave the Six Woman Tag Team match a 4 @.@ 5 out of 10 and the A.J. Styles versus Kurt Angle bout a 9 out of 10 .

 The X Division Championship contest was given a 7 out of 10 .

 Wade Keller of the Pro Wrestling Torch Newsletter reviewed the show .

 " Keller stated that the X Division Championship match was a " very good opener .

 "

 He went on to say that he felt it was " missing something " and that it " seemed like the match just never moved out of second gear .

 "

 = = Accident = =

 After Slammiversary ended , crews began to disassemble the set used for the event .

 During this time , a man named Kevin " Angus " Sinex was removing a light array when the scaffolding he was positioned on collapsed , causing him to slam against the concrete floor below .

 Another worker named Paul Martin was also taken to the hospital due to his thumb being cut off in the incident .

 TNA released a statement regarding the incident the next day through their website .

 The June 12 episode of Impact ! was dedicated to Sinex , with a banner at the beginning of the show stating "

 In memory Kevin Sinex ( 1963 – 2008 ) " .

 A moment of silence was held prior to the Impact ! tapings after Slammiversary in honor of Sinex .

 = = Aftermath = =

 Several wrestlers were concerned with Kurt Angle 's health going into his Slammiversary match with A.J. Styles .

 Despite the concerns , Angle appeared to be out of it after the contest but was expected to be alright .

 Samoa Joe and Booker T started a rivalry over the TNA World Heavyweight Championship following Slammiversary .

 At the event , Joe beat Booker T till he was bloody , causing several referees and security personnel to try to stop him to no avail .

 He was stopped when Sting interfered in the contest by bashing Joe with a baseball bat .

 Booker T then covered Joe for an unofficial pinfall victory that was counted by Booker T 's legitimate wife Sharmell .

 The match result was ruled a no @-@ contest , with Joe retaining the title .

 A.J. Styles was joined by Christian Cage and Rhino in his feud with Kurt Angle , who was joined by Team 3D .

 Cage was slammed through a glass table by Brother Ray .

 Rhino returned from injury on the July 3 episode of Impact ! , challenging Team 3D and Angle to a Six Man Tag Team match at Victory Road , while teasing at adding Full Metal Mayhem rules to the bout .

 An online poll was held to determine the stipulation for the match , resulting in Full Metal Mayhem being chosen .

 The team of Angle and Team 3D were the victors at the event .

 He competed in a Four Way Ultimate X match at Victory Road as the final round of the tournament .

 LAX feuded with James Storm and Robert Roode over the TNA World Tag Team Championship after Slammiversary .

 Roode and Storm formed a team known as Beer Money Incorporated and challenged LAX for the title on the June 12 episode of Impact ! .

 The match was originally won by Roode and Storm before being restarted due to interference .

 LAX won the restart to retain the championship .

 After the bout , Roode and Storm assaulted LAX and Héctor Guerrero .

 Management Director Jim Cornette scheduled a title defense at Victory Road between LAX and Roode and Storm under " Fan 's Revenge " Lumberjack rules on the June 19 episode of Impact ! .

 LAX were successful in defending the title at Victory Road .

 = = Results = =

 King of the Mountain match

 = Home Made Mince

 Pie =

 The film is a comedy of circumstances , in which the Gale family is going to host a dinner .

 Everyone becomes tipsy upon eating the pie , including the family cat , and the film concludes .

 No cast or staff credits for this film are known .

 The film was released on September 27 , 1910 , to mixed reviews in trade publications .

 Reviewers mentioned that the film was too long and it was unbelievable that one pie split eight ways would be able to impact everyone .

 The film is presumed lost .

 = = Plot = =

 Though the film is presumed lost , a synopsis survives in The Moving Picture World from September 24 , 1910 .

 The Gales thought well of this established feature .

 They made it a joyous occasion for themselves as well as their guests .

 "

 At the first crow of the rooster they would come hopping down to the kitchen to get the larder into shape .

 First Mamma

 Then arrived the guests .

 While she was receiving them the recollection came to Mamma Gale that the beloved mince pie had not received its flavoring .

 Off she speeds to a decanter of whiskey in the kitchen .

 She pours into the pie the right proportion of liquor , and goes back to her guests .

 Then Pappa

 Gale remembers that the pie has not been flavored .

 No sooner has he ceased and returned to his guest than Daughter Gale , who has just remembered about the forgotten flavoring , rushes in and makes for the whiskey .

 = = Production = =

 The writer of the scenario is unknown , but it was most likely Lloyd Lonergan .

 He was an experienced newspaperman employed by The New York Evening World while writing scripts for the Thanhouser productions .

 Film historian Q. David Bowers does not attribute a cameraman for this production , but at least two possible candidates exist .

 The role of the cameraman was uncredited in 1910 productions .

 The cast credits are unknown , but many 1910 Thanhouser productions are fragmentary .

 In late 1910 , the Thanhouser company released a list of the important personalities in their films .

 A surviving film still gives the possibility of identifying eight actors .

 = = Release and reception = =

 The single reel comedy , approximately 1 @ ,@ 000 feet long , was released on September 27 , 1910 .

 The film likely had a wide national release , with advertisements in theaters known in Indiana , Kansas , Wisconsin , and Pennsylvania .

 The The Moving Picture World reviewer found the subject to be too long , but did not find it to be a fault .

 The reviewer states , " A domestic comedy with a different flavor .

 In fact , with a mince pie for a basis the flavor comes to resemble brandy very strongly by the time that the cook , the maid and the mistress of the house and her daughter have added the proper proportion of flavoring , neither one knowing that the others have done likewise .

 The humor in this piece centers around this pie .

 What happened to the guests who partook of it certainly draws upon the imagination .

 Imagine eight people , not to speak of the cat , getting drunk on the brandy in one mince pie !

 ...

 Licensed as well as Independents were guilty and it is time that the manufacturers realize the importance of the scenario end of matters .

 True humor does not emanate from cognac . "

 The early part of the film takes too much time with trivial details leading up to the final situation .

 ...

 A weak point in the story is the fact that the pie is cut into eight small pieces , making it difficult to believe in its remarkable power .

 = Back Off Boogaloo =

 " Back Off Boogaloo " is a song by English musician Ringo Starr , released as a non @-@ album single in March 1972 .

 It remains Starr 's highest @-@ charting single in the United Kingdom .

 The title for the song was inspired by English singer @-@ songwriter Marc Bolan .

 Some commentators have suggested that the lyrics were directed at Paul McCartney , reflecting Starr 's disdain for the music McCartney had made as a solo artist over the previous two years .

 " Back Off Boogaloo " demonstrates the influence of glam rock on Starr , who directed a documentary film , Born to Boogie ( 1972 ) , about Bolan 's band T. Rex around this time .

 The original version has appeared on Starr 's compilation albums Blast from Your Past and Photograph :

 The Very Best of Ringo Starr , and as a bonus track on his remastered 1974 studio album Goodnight Vienna .

 = = Background and composition = =

 Ringo Starr identified his initial inspiration for " Back Off Boogaloo " as having come from Marc Bolan , the singer and guitarist with English glam rock band T. Rex .

 When discussing the composition on VH1 Storytellers in May 1998 , Starr explained : " [ Bolan ] was an energised guy .

 He used to speak : ' Back off boogaloo ... ooh you , boogaloo . ' ' Do you want some potatoes ?

 The lyrics to the middle eight of " Back Off Boogaloo " came to Starr while watching London Weekend Television 's football show , The Big Match .

 The program 's host , Jimmy Hill , often referred to a footballer 's playing as " tasty " , a catchphrase that Starr incorporated into his song lyrics :

 Get yourself together now

 And give me something tasty

 Everything you try to do

 You know it sure sounds wasted .

 Commentators have interpreted the song , and particularly this statement , as an attack by Starr on his former Beatles bandmate Paul McCartney .

 Starr has denied any such interpretation , instead " claiming that the song was inspired by Bolan and nothing more " , Beatles biographer Robert Rodriguez writes .

 The mention of " sound [ ing ] wasted " could also be a reference to McCartney 's overindulgence with cannabis , Rodriguez suggests .

 A further example of Starr 's allegedly anti @-@ McCartney message exists in the song 's first verse :

 Wake up , meathead

 Don 't pretend that you are dead

 Get yourself up off the cart .

 The same commentators suggest that here Starr could be referring to the 1969 " Paul Is Dead " hoax .

 The latter rumour circulated during September and October of that year while McCartney hid away on his Scottish farm , disconsolate after John Lennon had told him and Starr that he wanted a " divorce " from the Beatles .

 In addition to these supposed messages in " Back Off Boogaloo " , observers have viewed the song title as Starr 's rebuke to McCartney to abandon his legal stand against the Beatles and Apple Corps , which was placed in receivership in March 1971 after a High Court judge found in McCartney 's favour .

 While acknowledging that in subsequent years Starr might have chosen to minimise any ill @-@ feeling towards McCartney , Rodriguez notes that the lyrics " just happened to fit perfectly into the ' us vs .

 Although " T Rex devotees " , in the words of Starr biographer Alan Clayson , claimed that Bolan had ghost @-@ written " Back Off Boogaloo " , Starr later acknowledged that Harrison co @-@ wrote the song by adding some chords and finishing the melody .

 = = Recording = =

 Having earmarked the song as his next single , Starr recorded " Back Off Boogaloo " in September 1971 , following his appearance at the Harrison @-@ organised Concert for Bangladesh in New York .

 The sessions took place at Apple Studio in central London , with Harrison producing , as he had on " It Don 't Come Easy " .

 Rodriguez describes Starr 's " martial @-@ sounding opening " as a rare " showcase for his own drumming " , while Harrison biographer Simon Leng writes of " a roaring series of Harrison slide breaks that brought to mind Duane Allman " .

 Further overdubs included contributions from three backing vocalists , led by American soul singer Madeline Bell .

 For the single 's B @-@ side , Starr had already written and recorded " Blindman " , the theme song for the Ferdinando Baldi @-@ directed Spaghetti Western of the same name , filming for which Starr had interrupted in order to perform at the Concert for Bangladesh .

 Starr produced the track with Voormann .

 The sessions for " Blindman " took place at Apple on 18 – 19 August , with Badfinger guitarist Pete Ham assisting Starr and Voormann .

 = = Release and reception = =

 Further aligning himself with Britain 's glam rock movement , Starr made his directorial debut with Born to Boogie ( 1972 ) , a film starring Bolan that included Starr 's footage of a T. Rex concert held at Wembley on 18 March .

 A promotional video for " Back Off Boogaloo " was shot on 20 March at Lennon 's Tittenhurst Park residence while Starr was looking after the property .

 The video , which shows Starr walking around an outdoor structure and followed by a Frankenstein @-@ like monster , was directed by Tom Taylor and financed by Caravel Films .

 A similar monster appeared on the single 's picture sleeve , holding a cigarette .

 Alan Clayson writes of reviewers criticising " Back Off Boogaloo " for being repetitious , leading Starr to respond in a 1973 interview :

 " Play me a pop song that isn 't . "

 There 's a touch of the Marc Bolans in this highly playable rhythmic excursion ...

 In a 1974 article for the NME , Charles Shaar Murray highlighted " Back Off Boogaloo " as a " great radio and juke @-@ box tune " .

 "

 The Very Best of Ringo Starr , the collector 's edition of which included his 1972 video for the song .

 = = Stop and Smell the Roses version = =

 Starr recorded a new version of " Back Off Boogaloo " for his 1981 album on Boardwalk Records , Stop and Smell the Roses .

 The song was produced by Starr 's friend , singer Harry Nilsson , and features a musical arrangement by Van Dyke Parks .

 In a further reference to his past , the 1981 version of " Back Off Boogaloo " opens with the same guitar riff that Harrison had played on " It Don 't Come Easy " ten years before .

 Starr overdubbed his vocals on 4 December , four days before the murder of John Lennon , who had been due to record his contributions to Stop and Smell the Roses in January 1981 .

 Contrasting with his success as a solo artist in 1971 – 73 , the album continued Starr 's run of commercial and critical failures since 1976 ; Rodriguez writes that " [ m ] ost people either love or hate the revamping " of " Back Off Boogaloo " .

 = = Live performance = =

 So Far ( 2001 ) and King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo & His New All @-@ Starr Band ( 2002 ) .

 Starr also played the song live with Ringo and the Roundheads , a band he formed to promote his 1998 studio album Vertical Man .

 A version recorded on 13 May that year at Sony Music Studios , New York , appeared on Starr 's VH1 Storytellers live album and video , released in October 1998 .

 The personnel on this performance included Starr ( vocals ) , Joe Walsh and Mark Hudson ( guitars ) , Jack Blades ( bass ) and Simon Kirke ( drums ) .

 Another live version with the Roundheads , recorded for PBS Television 's Soundstage in August 2005 , was issued on Ringo Starr : Live at Soundstage ( 2007 ) .

 = = Personnel = =

 The following musicians played on the original version of " Back Off Boogaloo " :

 George Harrison – slide guitars , acoustic guitar

 Gary Wright – piano

 Klaus Voormann – bass , saxophone

 = = Chart performance = =

 = Where the Streets Have No Name =

 Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based on the street on which they lived , particularly in Belfast .

 During the band 's difficulties recording the song , producer Brian Eno considered erasing the song 's tapes to have them start from scratch .

 The song has remained a staple of their live act since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour .

 The song was performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of its music video , which won a Grammy Award for Best Performance Music Video .

 = = Writing and recording = =

 The music for " Where the Streets Have No Name " originated from a demo that guitarist The Edge composed the night before the group resumed The Joshua Tree sessions .

 In an upstairs room at Melbeach House — his newly purchased home —

 The Edge used a four @-@ track tape machine to record an arrangement of keyboards , bass , guitar , and a drum machine .

 Realising that the album sessions were approaching the end and that the band were short on exceptional live songs , The Edge wanted to " conjure up the ultimate U2 live @-@ song " , so he imagined what he would like to hear at a future U2 show if he were a fan .

 With no one in the house to share the demo with , The Edge recalls dancing around and punching the air in celebration .

 Although the band liked the demo , it was difficult for them to record the song .

 Bassist Adam Clayton said , " At the time it sounded like a foreign language , whereas now we understand how it works " .

 The arrangement , with two time signature shifts and frequent chord changes , was rehearsed many times , but the group struggled to get a performance they liked .

 I remember having this massive schoolhouse blackboard , as we call them .

 I was holding a pointer , like a college professor , walking the band through the chord changes like a fucking nerd .

 It was ridiculous . "

 So much time had been spent on " screwdriver work " that Eno thought it would be best to start from scratch .

 The studio version of the song was compiled from several different takes .

 It was one of several songs mixed by Steve Lillywhite in the final months of recording The Joshua Tree .

 Drummer Larry Mullen , Jr. later said of the song , " It took so long to get that song right , it was difficult for us to make any sense of it .

 It only became a truly great song through playing live .

 = = Composition = =

 " Where the Streets Have No Name " is played at a tempo of 126 beats per minute .

 The songs opens with an instrumental section , starting with chorale @-@ like sustained synthesiser notes .

 The guitar fades in after 42 seconds ; this part consists of a repeated " chiming " six @-@ note arpeggio .

 A " dotted eighth " delay effect is used to " play " each note in the arpeggio twice , thus creating a rich sound .

 The bass and drums enter at 1 : 10 .

 The introduction , following a I – IV – I – IV – vi – V – I chord progression , creates a " wall of sound " , as described by Mark Butler , against which the vocals emerge after nearly two minutes .

 The guitar part played for the remainder of the song features

 The Edge strumming percussive sixteenth notes .

 This development reaches a climax during the first chorus at the line " burning down love " ( A – G – F ♯ – D ) ; the melody progresses through a series of scale degrees that lead to the highest note in the song , the A4 at " burning " .

 In later choruses , Bono sings " blown by the wind " with the same melody , stretching the same note even longer .

 = = Lyrics = =

 The lyrics were inspired by a story that Bono heard about the streets of Belfast , Northern Ireland , where a person 's religion and income are evident by the street they live on .

 He contrasted this with the anonymity he felt when visiting Ethiopia , saying : " ... the guy in the song recognizes this contrast and thinks about a world where there aren 't such divisions , a place where the streets have no name .

 I was trying to sketch a feeling . "

 The open @-@ ended nature of the lyrics has led to many interpretations .

 Journalist Michael Campbell believed the lyrics send " a message of hope " and wish for a " world that is not divided by class , wealth , race , or any other arbitrary criterion " .

 I used to think it was Belfast ... " Journalist Niall Stokes believes the title was influenced by Bono 's and his wife Ali 's visit to Ethiopia as volunteer aid @-@ workers .

 Bono has expressed mixed opinions about the open @-@ ended lyrics : " I can look at it now and recognize that [ the song ] has one of the most banal couplets in the history of pop music .

 But it also contains some of the biggest ideas .

 In a curious way , that seems to work .

 If you get any way heavy about these things , you don 't communicate .

 But if you 're flip or throwaway about it , then you do .

 That 's one of the paradoxes I 've come to terms with . "

 = = Release = =

 Originally , the third single from The Joshua Tree was meant to be the song " Red Hill Mining Town " , but " Where the Streets Have No Name " was released instead , in August 1987 .

 The single was released on 7 @-@ inch , 12 @-@ inch , cassette and CD single formats .

 Although not as successful as the album 's first two singles , the song did chart well .

 The song reached number four on the UK Singles Chart , and it topped the Irish Singles Chart .

 = = = Music video = = =

 The video begins with an aerial shot of a block in Los Angeles , and clips of radio broadcasts are heard with disc jockeys stating that U2 is planning on performing a concert downtown and expecting crowds of 30 @ , @ 000 people .

 Police show up to the set and inform the band 's crew of the security issue that the film shoot is causing , due to the large number of people who are coming to watch the performance .

 Towards the end of the song , the police tell the crew that the performance is about to be shut down , and eventually police walk onto the roof while the crowd are booing the police .

 The video for " Where the Streets Have No Name " was directed by Meiert Avis and produced by Michael Hamlyn and Ben Dossett .

 The band attracted over 1 @ , @ 000 people during the video 's filming , which took place on the rooftop of a liquor store in Downtown Los Angeles on 27 March 1987 .

 During the shoot U2 played an eight @-@ song set , which included four performances of " Where the Streets Have No Name " . Prior to filming , a week was spent reinforcing the roof of the liquor store to ensure it would not collapse if it were to be intruded by a group of fans .

 A backup generator was put on the roof so the shooting could continue in the event that the authorities shut off the power on the primary generator , which happened during filming .

 The depiction of the police attempting to shut down the video shoot due to safety concerns actually happened during filming , just as seen in the video .

 Hamlyn was almost arrested following a confrontation with the police .

 In the background of the video is a sign for The Million Dollar Hotel , which was rebuilt to create some interest , in case no one showed up at the film shoot .

 The video won the Grammy Award for Best Performance Music Video at the 1989 Grammy Awards .

 = = = B @-@ sides = = =

 The song developed from the band 's interest in urban funk , and was described by The Edge as " a kind of Afro @-@ rhythmic piece " and " a study in rhythm . "

 The bass riff in the song , inspired by the bodhrán , was played by The Edge , but stemmed from some of Clayton 's unused bass parts .

 Mullen 's drum part was recorded in a single take .

 Bono said of the song , " It reminds me of the desert .

 The desert is so empty , but it aches with a strange kind of fullness .

 " John Hutchinson of Musician magazine described the song as having an " African flavour " and as being reminiscent of Peter Gabriel .

 The track was used in the Miami Vice episode " Child 's Play " , and is the only one of the single 's B @-@ sides that was never played live .

 In 1985 , Bono participated in Steven Van Zandt 's anti @-@ apartheid Sun City project and spent time with Keith Richards and Mick Jagger of The Rolling Stones .

 When Richards and Jagger played blues , Bono was embarrassed by his lack of familiarity with the genre , as most of U2 's musical knowledge began with punk rock in their youth in the mid @-@ 1970s .

 Both the studio recording and the Sun City versions were later featured on the bonus disc of the 20th anniversary edition of The Joshua Tree .

 " Sweetest Thing " was written by Bono as an apology to his wife for forgetting her birthday .

 The song opens with a short piano piece before the rest of the band begins to play .

 Some of Bono 's lyrics have been described as reminiscent of John Lennon .

 It was re @-@ recorded with some lyrical alterations and released in 1998 as a single in its own right for The Best of 1980 – 1990 .

 = = Critical reception = =

 The Bergen Record echoed these sentiments , saying the tracks demonstrated how the band was on a personal and spiritual quest .

 Rolling Stone called it " assertive rock " in their review of The Joshua Tree .

 The San Diego Union @-@ Tribune said of " Where the Streets Have No Name " , " the music charges , like someone fleeing for life " .

 The Washington Post said the track is " a bit oblique lyrically , but the implications are clear in Bono 's resolute delivery , Dave ( the Edge ) Evan 's quavering guitar , Adam Clayton 's cathedral bass and Larry Mullen 's rolling thunder drums " .

 NME lauded the song as the opening track by saying the album " starts by spitting furiously " .

 The publication praised Bono 's impassioned singing and The Edge 's guitar playing , which transformed the instrument into " something more than an endlessly abused piece of wood " .

 The review commented that the " last ten seconds are breathtakingly beautiful " .

 The Rocket wrote that the song builds a " wall of sound " that Bono 's vocals cut through with a " wail of desperation , as the lyrics agonize the need for personal spirituality " .

 The reviewer compared the opening riff to Simple Minds ' " Ghostdancing " . Reviewing The Joshua Tree , Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic called the song an " epic opener " .

 He called the song the " perfect album @-@ opener " , crediting the " slow build of its arrangement toward a climactic peak " .

 Huey also called Bono 's delivery " passionate and grandiose " and " his commitment to the material unshakable " .

 He believed the combination of his vocals and the band 's " sonic power " is what gave U2 its " tremendous force " .

 = = Live performances = =

 The song is widely regarded as one of the group 's most popular live songs .

 The audience is on its feet , singing along with every word .

 It 's like God suddenly walks through the room . "

 On The Joshua Tree Tour , " Where the Streets Have No Name " was most often used to open concerts .

 Fans and critics responded favourably to the song in a live setting .

 In other reviews , the song was called : " uplifting " , " exhilarating " , and " powerful " .

 Out of the 109 shows during The Joshua Tree Tour , " Streets " was played at all except 12 of the concerts .

 The song was performed at every show on the 1992 – 1993 Zoo TV Tour .

 Some of these performances of the song were accompanied by footage of the group in the desert from The Joshua Tree 's photo shoot .

 This video would make a return during performances on the 2010 and 2011 legs of the U2 360 ° Tour .

 Bono parodied this by occasionally adopting the deadpan vocal style used in the Pet Shop Boys ' cover .

 Critics welcomed the song in the group 's setlist :

 The Independent said the song " induces instant euphoria , as U2 do what they 're best at , slipping into epic rock mode , playing music made for the arena " .

 In two other local newspaper reviews , critics praised the song 's inclusion in a sequence of greatest hits .

 For the PopMart Tour of 1997 – 1998 , U2 returned to the electronic dance arrangement they occasionally played on the Zoo TV Tour .

 The set 's massive video screen displayed a video that Hot Press described as an " astonishing , 2001 @-@ style trip into the heart of a swirling , psychedelic tunnel that sucks the audience in towards a horizontal monolith " .

 Near the end of the song , peace doves were shown on the screen and bright beams of light flanking the set 's golden arch were projected upwards .

 Hot Press said the effect transformed the stadium into a " UFO landing site " .

 Shortly before the third leg of the Elevation Tour , the September 11 attacks occurred in New York City and Washington D.C. During the band 's first show in New York City following the attacks , the band performed " Where the Streets Have No Name " , and when the stage lights illuminated the audience , the band saw tears streaming down the faces of many fans .

 The experience was one inspiration for the song " City of Blinding Lights " .

 The band paid tribute to the 9 / 11 victims during their performance of the song at the Super Bowl XXXVI halftime show on 3 February 2002 .

 The performance featured the names of the September 11 victims projected onto a large white banner behind the band .

 U2 's appearance was later ranked number 1 on Sports Illustrated 's list of " Top 10 Super Bowl Halftime Shows " .

 All 131 of the Vertigo Tour concerts featured a performance of the song , which were accompanied by the stage 's LED video curtains displaying African flags .

 On the tour 's opening night , this reminded Bono that he had originally written the lyrics in an Ethiopian village .

 He thought this visual accompaniment made the song come full circle , saying , " And here it was , nearly twenty years later , coming back to Africa , all the stuff about parched lands and deserts making sense for the first time . "

 The song was also played at the preview screening of the band 's concert film U2 3D at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival .

 At the Glastonbury Festival 2010 , The Edge accompanied rock band Muse for a live cover version of the track , later playing it with U2 while headlining Glastonbury in 2011 .

 U2 Live from Mexico City .

 The 2004 digital album , Live from the Point Depot , contains a performance from the Lovetown Tour , only available as part of The Complete U2 digital box set .

 = = Legacy = =

 The following year , Q ranked the song at number 459 in a special edition titled " 1001 Best Songs Ever " .

 Three years later , the magazine 's readers voted the track the 43rd @-@ greatest song in history .

 Rolling Stone ranked the song at number 28 on its list of the " 100 Greatest Guitar Songs of All Time . "

 In a 2010 poll by fan site @ U2 , approximately 29 % of 4 @ , @ 800 respondents named " Where the Streets Have No Name " as their favourite song from The Joshua Tree , ranking it as the most popular song from the album .

 The advertisement , titled " Robben Island " , portrays South African political prisoners during the apartheid era forming a soccer team .

 There are plans to bring a recording of the Soweto @-@ supported performance to retail .

 Composer John Mackey used the introductory guitar theme in his 2009 piece for wind ensemble , Aurora Awakes .

 The song 's introduction was used by the Vancouver Canucks hockey team at the start each of their home games , when the players take to the ice .

 The Baltimore Ravens also use the song as they enter M & T Bank Stadium before home games .

 The Marquette Golden Eagles men 's basketball team uses this song in their entrance video before all home games at the BMO Harris Bradley Center .

 The Kansas Jayhawks men 's basketball team uses the song during their starting lineups at Allen Fieldhouse .

 = = Track listing = =

 = = Personnel = =

 = = Charts = =

 = Nazarov cyclization reaction =

 The reaction is typically divided into classical and modern variants , depending on the reagents and substrates employed .

 As originally described , the Nazarov cyclization involves the activation of a divinyl ketone using a stoichiometric Lewis acid or protic acid promoter .

 As the reaction has been developed , variants involving substrates other than divinyl ketones and promoters other than Lewis acids have been subsumed under the name Nazarov cyclization provided that they follow a similar mechanistic pathway .

 The success of the Nazarov cyclization as a tool in organic synthesis stems from the utility and ubiquity of cyclopentenones as both motifs in natural products ( including jasmone , the aflatoxins , and a subclass of prostaglandins ) and as useful synthetic intermediates for total synthesis .

 The reaction has been used in several total syntheses and several reviews have been published .

 = = Mechanism = =

 Activation of the ketone by the acid catalyst generates a pentadienyl cation which undergoes a thermally allowed 4 π conrotatory electrocyclization as dictated by the Woodward @-@ Hoffman rules .

 Subsequent tautomerization of the enolate produces the cyclopentenone product .

 The propensity of the system to enter this conformation dramatically influences reaction rate , with α @-@ substituted substrates having an increased population of the requisite conformer due to allylic strain .

 Coordination of an electron donating α @-@ substituent by the catalyst can likewise increase the reaction rate by enforcing this conformation .

 Similarly , β @-@ substitution directed inward restricts the s @-@ trans conformation so severely that E @-@ Z isomerization has been shown to occur in advance of cyclization on a wide range of substrates , yielding the trans cyclopentenone regardless of initial configuration .

 The example below uses triethylsilyl hydride to trap the oxyallyl cation so that no elimination occurs .

 ( See Interrupted cyclizations below )

 Along this same vein , allenyl vinyl ketones of the type studied extensively by Marcus Tius of the University of Hawaii show dramatic rate acceleration due to the removal of β @-@ hydrogens , obviating a large amount of steric strain in the s @-@ cis conformer .

 = = Classical Nazarov cyclizations = =

 Though cyclizations following the general template above had been observed prior to Nazarov 's involvement , it was his study of the rearrangements of allyl vinyl ketones that marked the first major examination of this process .

 Nazarov correctly reasoned that the allylic olefin isomerized in situ to form a divinyl ketone before ring closure to the cyclopentenone product .

 The reaction shown below involves an alkyne oxymercuration reaction to generate the requisite ketone .

 = = = Shortcomings = = =

 The classical version of the Nazarov cyclization suffers from several drawbacks which modern variants attempt to circumvent .

 The first two are not evident from the mechanism alone , but are indicative of the barriers to cyclization ; the last three stem from selectivity issues relating to elimination and protonation of the intermediate .

 Strong Lewis or protic acids are typically required for the reaction ( e.g. TiCl4 , BF3 , MeSO3H ) .

 These promoters are not compatible with sensitive functional groups , limiting the substrate scope .

 Despite the mechanistic possibility for catalysis , multiple equivalents of the promoter are often required in order to effect the reaction .

 This limits the atom economy of the reaction .

 The elimination step is not regioselective ; if multiple β @-@ hydrogens are available for elimination , various products are often observed as mixtures .

 This is highly undesirable from an efficiency standpoint as arduous separation is typically required .

 Elimination destroys a potential stereocenter , decreasing the potential usefulness of the reaction .

 = = Modern variants = =

 The shortcomings noted above limit the usefulness of the Nazarov cyclization reaction in its canonical form .

 However , modifications to the reaction focused on remedying its issues continue to be an active area of academic research .

 In particular , the research has focused on a few key areas : rendering the reaction catalytic in the promoter , effecting the reaction with more mild promoters to improve functional group tolerance , directing the regioselectivity of the elimination step , and improving the overall stereoselectivity .

 These have been successful to varying degrees .

 Additionally , modifications focused on altering the progress of the reaction , either by generating the pentadienyl cation in an unorthodox fashion or by having the oxyallyl cation " intercepted " in various ways .

 Furthermore , enantioselective variants of various kinds have been developed .

 The sheer volume of literature on the subject prevents a comprehensive examination of this field ; key examples are given below .

 = = = Silicon @-@ directed cyclization = = =

 The earliest efforts to improve the selectivity of the Nazarov cyclization took advantage of the β @-@ silicon effect in order to direct the regioselectivity of the elimination step .

 With bicyclic products , the cis isomer was selected for to varying degrees .

 The silicon @-@ directed Nazarov cyclization reaction was subsequently employed in the synthesis of the natural product Silphinene , shown below .

 The cyclization takes place before elimination of the benzyl alcohol moiety , so that the resulting stereochemistry of the newly formed ring arises from approach of the silyl alkene anti to the ether .

 = = = Polarization = = =

 Drawing on the substituent effects compiled over various trials of the reaction , Professor Alison Frontier of the University of Rochester developed a paradigm for " polarized " Nazarov cyclizations in which electron donating and electron withdrawing groups are used to improve the overall selectivity of the reaction .

 Creation of an effective vinyl nucleophile and vinyl electrophile in the substrate allows catalytic activation with copper triflate and regioselective elimination .

 In addition , the electron withdrawing group increases the acidity of the α @-@ proton , allowing selective formation of the trans @-@ α @-@ epimer via equilibration .

 It is often possible to achieve catalytic activation using a donating or withdrawing group alone , although the efficiency of the reaction ( yield , reaction time , etc . ) is typically lower .

 By extension , any pentadienyl cation regardless of its origin is capable of undergoing a Nazarov cyclization .

 There have been a large number of examples published where the requisite cation is arrived at by a variety of rearrangements .

 One such example involves the silver catalyzed cationic ring opening of allylic dichloro cylopropanes .

 The silver salt facilitates loss of chloride via precipitation of insoluble silver chloride .

 = = = Interrupted cyclization = = =

 Once the cyclization has occurred , an oxyallyl cation is formed .

 As discussed extensively above , the typical course for this intermediate is elimination followed by enolate tautomerization .

 The oxyallyl cation can be trapped with heteroatom and carbon nucleophiles and can also undergo cationic cycloadditions with various tethered partners .

 Shown below is a cascade reaction in which successive cation trapping generates a pentacyclic core in one step with complete diastereoselectivity .

 Enolate trapping with various electrophiles is decidedly less common .

 In one study , the Nazarov cyclization is paired with a Michael reaction using an iridium catalyst to initiate nucleophilic conjugate addition of the enolate to β @-@ nitrostyrene .

 = = = Enantioselective variants = = =

 The development of an enantioselective Nazarov cyclization is a desirable addition to the repertoire of Nazarov cyclization reactions .

 To that end , several variations have been developed utilizing chiral auxiliaries and chiral catalysts .

 Diastereoselective cyclizations are also known , in which extant stereocenters direct the cyclization .

 Almost all of the attempts are based on the idea of torquoselectivity ; selecting one direction for the vinyl groups to " rotate " in turn sets the stereochemistry as shown below .

 Silicon @-@ directed Nazarov cyclizations can exhibit induced diastereoselectivity in this way .

 In the example below , the silyl @-@ group acts to direct the cyclization by preventing the distant alkene from rotating " towards " it via unfavorable steric interaction .

 In this way the silicon acts as a traceless auxiliary .

 Tius 's allenyl substrates can exhibit axial to tetrahedral chirality transfer if enantiopure allenes are used .

 The example below generates a chiral diosphenpol in 64 % yield and 95 % enantiomeric excess .

 Tius has additionally developed a camphor @-@ based auxiliary for achiral allenes that was employed in the first asymmetric synthesis of roseophilin .

 The key step employs an unusual mixture of hexafluoro @-@ 2 @ -@ propanol and trifluoroethanol as solvent .

 The first chiral Lewis acid promoted asymmetric Nazarov cyclization was reported by Varinder Aggarwal and utilized copper ( II ) bisoxazoline ligand complexes with up to 98 % ee .

 The enantiomeric excess was unaffected by use of 50 mol % of the copper complex but the yield was significantly decreased .

 = = Related Reactions = =

 Extensions of the Nazarov cyclization are generally also subsumed under the same name .

 For example , an α @ -@ β , γ @-@ δ unsaturated ketone can undergo a similar cationic conrotatory cyclization that is typically referred to as an iso @-@ Nazarov cyclization reaction .

 Other such extensions have been given similar names , including homo @-@ Nazarov cyclizations and vinylogous Nazarov cyclizations .

 Building from this , several electrocyclic ring openings of β @-@ alkoxy cyclopentanes have been reported .

 These are typically referred to as retro @-@ Nazarov cyclization reactions .

 Even these tend to suffer from poor stereoselectivity , poor yields , or narrow scope .

 The difficulty stems from the relative over @-@ stabilization of the pentadienyl cation by electron donation , impeding cyclization .

 = Horrible Bosses =

 The plot follows three friends , played by Bateman , Day , and Sudeikis , who decide to murder their respective overbearing , abusive bosses , portrayed by Spacey , Aniston and Farrell .

 Markowitz 's script was bought by New Line Cinema in 2005 and the film spent six years in various states of pre @-@ production , with a variety of actors attached to different roles .

 The film premiered in Los Angeles on June 30 , 2011 , and received a wide release on July 8 , 2011 .

 The film grossed over $ 209 million worldwide during its theatrical run .

 The film opened to positive critical reception , with several critics praising the ensemble cast , with each lead being singled out for their performances across reviews .

 The plot received a more mixed response ; some reviewers felt that its dark , humorous premise was explored well , while others felt the jokes were racist , homophobic , and misogynistic .

 A sequel , Horrible Bosses 2 , was released on November 26 , 2014 .

 = = Plot = =

 Nick Hendricks ( Bateman ) and Dale Arbus ( Day ) are friends who despise their bosses .

 Nick works at a financial firm for the sadistic David Harken ( Spacey ) , who implies the possibility of a promotion for Nick for months , only to award it to himself .

 Initially hesitant , they eventually agree to kill their employers .

 In search of a hitman , the trio meet Dean " Motherfuckah " Jones ( Foxx ) , an ex @-@ con who agrees to be their " murder consultant " . Jones suggests that Dale , Kurt and Nick kill each other 's bosses to hide their motive while making the deaths look like accidents .

 The three reconnoiter Bobby 's house , and Kurt steals Bobby 's phone .

 They next go to Harken 's house , where Kurt and Nick go inside while Dale waits in the car .

 Harken returns home and confronts Dale for littering , but then has an allergy attack from the peanut butter on the litter .

 Dale saves Harken by stabbing him with an EpiPen .

 Nick and Kurt think Dale is stabbing Harken to death and flee , with Kurt accidentally dropping Bobby 's phone in Harken 's bedroom .

 The next night , Kurt watches Julia 's home , but she seduces and has sex with him .

 He drives over and kills Bobby , with Nick as a secret witness .

 Nick flees at high speed , setting off a traffic camera .

 The trio meet to discuss their reservations about continuing with their plan .

 They are arrested by the police , who believe the camera footage makes them suspects in Bobby 's murder .

 Lacking evidence , the police are forced to let the trio go free .

 The trio consult with Jones again , but learn that he never actually killed anyone , having been imprisoned for bootlegging the film Snow Falling on Cedars .

 Jones suggests that they get Harken to confess and secretly tape it .

 Harken threatens to kill all three for attempting to blackmail him .

 They flee by car , but Harken gives chase and repeatedly rams their vehicle .

 Harken shoots himself in the leg as he boasts about his plan to frame them for murdering Bobby and attempting to kill him to get rid of the witness .

 Gregory plays the tape that has Harken confessing he murdered Pellitt .

 Harken is sentenced to 25 years to life in prison , while the friends get their charges waived .

 = = Cast = =

 Jason Bateman as Nick Hendricks

 An executive at a financial firm who is manipulated into jumping through hoops in order to get a promotion that his boss never intended to give him .

 Markowitz wrote the role specifically for Bateman .

 Charlie Day as Dale Arbus

 A dental assistant who is sexually harassed by his boss .

 Described as a " hopeless romantic " in love with his fiancée .

 Day was considered for the role following his co @-@ starring performance with Sudeikis in the 2010 film Going the Distance — Reuters reported that industry insiders believed his performance overshadowed the main stars .

 Jason Sudeikis as Kurt Buckman

 An account manager at a chemical company dealing with a new , drug @-@ addicted boss after his beloved former boss dies .

 Sudeikis was cast in May 2010 .

 Jennifer Aniston as Dr. Julia Harris , D.D.S.

 Markowitz based the character on a former boss , claiming she was " very sexually aggressive with everybody " .

 When writing the script , Markowitz intended for the role to go to Aniston .

 He stated , " but [ the aforementioned boss ] looked more like Cruella de Vil .

 It was like flirting with a cobweb .

 So I decided for the sake of the movie , let ’ s go with Jennifer Aniston . ”

 The actress insisted on wearing a brown wig for the role , wanting to look different from other characters she had played .

 Colin Farrell as Bobby Pellitt

 Described as a " weaselly scion " and a " corrupt and incompetent jerk who 's in charge of things but clearly has no idea what he 's doing . "

 Farrell explained the motivation he gave to the character , stating "

 This guy thinks he 's God 's gift to women , God 's gift to intellect , to humor , to the club scene , to everything .

 It 's all part of his grandiose sense of self @-@ esteem , which is probably masking a deeper sense of being a disappointment to his father and being riddled with envy over the relationship his father had with Kurt , and all kinds of other things .

 Kevin Spacey as David Harken

 President of Comnidyne Industries .

 Tom Cruise , Philip Seymour Hoffman and Jeff Bridges had been approached by New Line Cinema to take the role , described as a psychopathic master manipulator with an attractive wife .

 Spacey signed up for the role in June 2010 .

 The part was considered " integral " to the film .

 Gordon commented that the character was an amalgamation of several real bosses ( rather than one single person ) to avoid being sued .

 Jamie Foxx as Dean " Motherfuckah " Jones

 The current name was said to be subject to further change , prior to the release of the film .

 Foxx contributed to his character 's appearance , suggesting full @-@ scalp tattoos and a retro clothing style .

 Foxx described the appearance as " a guy who maybe went to jail for a minute and now he 's living in his own time capsule .

 When he got out he went right back to the clothes he thought were hot when he went in . "

 Donald Sutherland portrays Jack Pellitt , Bobby 's father and Kurt 's boss .

 Mustafa was quoted as saying "

 It 's a smaller role " .

 He appears as Officer Wilkens .

 Julie Bowen appears in the film as Rhonda , Harken 's wife .

 Ioan Gruffudd has a cameo as a male prostitute erroneously hired as a hitman .

 Lindsay Sloane appears as Dale 's fiancee Stacy .

 P. J. Byrne plays Kenny Sommerfeld , a former investment manager , now scrounging for drinks , while Wendell Pierce and Ron White play a pair of cops .

 Bob Newhart makes a cameo as sadistic Comnidyne CEO Louis Sherman .

 John Francis Daley , a screenwriter on the film , cameos as Nick 's co @-@ worker Carter .

 = = Production = =

 = = = Development = = =

 Ratner initially was interested in directing , but became occupied with directing the comedy Tower Heist .

 Frank Oz and David Dobkin were in talks to direct .

 Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley rewrote the script in 2010 , and the project went into production with Seth Gordon directing .

 = = = Design = = =

 Production designer Shepherd Frankel specifically set out to create distinctly different environments for the three employees and their respective bosses ' homes and offices .

 The design team met with financial strategists and management companies to learn about the architecture of their office layouts to visually represent the experience of starting from a low @-@ ranking position in a cubicle and aspiring to an office .

 Costume designer Carol Ramsey worked with Frankel and set decorator Jan Pascale to match Harken 's suit to that of the surrounding " cold grey and blue " color palette of his office .

 Designing Julia 's office was described as a " challenge " , infusing a " sensual vibe " into a dental office .

 "

 Bobby 's environments were designed with more contrast , the character being new to the work area .

 Some parts of the house design were provided by Farrell and Gordon 's interpretation of the character and his " infatuation " with martial arts and " his delusions of prowess " .

 = = = Filming = = =

 Filming of Horrible Bosses took place in and around Los Angeles .

 To take advantage of the surrounding imagery , the warehouse required an extensive series of overhauls , including cutting windows into concrete walls and creating new doorways to allow for visuals of the warehouse exterior and provide a setting for the final scene of Sutherland 's character .

 A T.G.I. Friday 's in Woodland Hills , Los Angeles , was used as a bar frequented by Nick , Dale , and Kurt , while the bar scene where they meet with Jones was staged in downtown Los Angeles .

 The film was shot digitally using the Panavision Genesis camera .

 = = = Music = = =

 The soundtrack was composed by award @-@ winning composer Christopher Lennertz , with music contributed by Mike McCready of Pearl Jam , Stefan Lessard of Dave Matthews Band and Money Mark — a collaborator with the Beastie Boys .

 Lennertz recorded the soundtrack at The Village recording studio in West Los Angeles and Capitol Records .

 Lennertz attempted to remain " authentic " to the characters ' progression from average worker to calculated killer .

 To achieve this aim , he decided against recording digitally , instead recording the tracks on two @-@ inch analog tape , intending each musical cue to sound as if it was emanating from a vinyl record .

 It isn 't over @-@ produced or shiny and digital in any way .

 It 's brash , noisy , and full of bravado and swagger .

 At the end of the day , Seth [ Gordon ] and I wanted to produce a score that is as irreverent and full of attitude as the movie itself .

 I think we did it ... and most of all , everyone had a blast in the process . "

 Horrible Bosses : The Original Motion Picture Soundtrack was released in physical and digital formats on July 5 , 2011 , by WaterTower Music .

 The soundtrack consists of 33 tracks with a runtime of 63 minutes .

 = = Release = =

 The world premiere of Horrible Bosses took place on June 30 , 2011 at Grauman 's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood , California .

 = = = Box office = = =

 North America

 Horrible Bosses was released on July 8 , 2011 in the United States and Canada across 3 @ , @ 040 theaters .

 It grossed $ 9.9M on the first day , giving it the second largest opening gross for an original R @-@ rated comedy of the summer , behind Bad Teacher ( $ 12.2M ) .

 The opening weekend audience was 51 % male , and 64 % of the audience were over 25 years of age .

 The second weekend ( 15 – 17 July ) saw a further 94 theaters added , for a total of 3 @ , @ 134 .

 Box office revenue dropped by a " respectable " 38 % , taking $ 17.6

 M for a total gross of $ 60M in ten days .

 The film ranked third for the weekend .

 M for a gross of $ 82.6 M in 17 days .

 On July 28 , 2011 , with $ 87.6

 Other territories

 Horrible Bosses received generally positive reviews from critics .

 On Rotten Tomatoes , the film holds a rating of 68 % , based on 208 reviews , with an average rating of 6 @.@ 2 / 10 .

 " Review aggregate Metacritic gave the film a score of 57 out of 100 , based on 40 critics , indicating " mixed or average reviews " .

 Roger Ebert gave the film three and a half stars out of four , calling it " well @-@ cast " and commending it for playing to each actor 's strengths .

 Ebert gave particular praise to Spacey , labeling him " superb " , and Aniston , judging her performance to be a " surprise " and a return to form , stating " she has acute comic timing and hilariously enacts alarming sexual hungers " .

 The A.V. Club 's Nathan Rabin also praised the cast , stating that the picture " succeeds almost entirely on the chemistry of its three leads , who remain likeable even while resorting to homicide " , adding the " acting more than compensates for the film 's other failings .

 " Rabin singled out Day 's performance as " a potent illustration of how a brilliant character actor with a spark of madness can elevate a ramshackle lowbrow farce into a solid mainstream comedy through sheer force of charisma .

 Douglas summarized the picture as " dark fun that works better than expected due to a well @-@ developed script , an impeccable cast and a director who knows how to put the two together " . A. O. Scott of The New York Times stated " the timing of the cast ... is impeccable " and appreciated that the script did not attempt " to cut its coarseness with a hypocritical dose of sweetness or respectability " .

 "

 "

 The Hollywood Reporter 's Kirk Honeycutt responded negatively , stating the jokes failed to be funny , stating " Seth Gordon shows no flair for turning the absurdities and cartoonish characters in the script ... into anything more than a collection of moments in search of laughs .

 " Karina Longworth of The Village Voice was critical of the premise , which she felt lacked any legitimate " rage " against the characters ' bosses , stating " ... there 's every sign that , even without these particular emasculators , Dale , Kurt and Nick would still be — for lack of a better word — total pussies .

 = = = Accolades = = =

 The film received several award nominations , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor for Colin Farrell , and three nominations from the 2012 Comedy Awards , including Comedy Actor for Bateman , Comedy Actress for Aniston , and best Comedy Film .

 Farrell also received a nomination for Best On @-@ Screen Transformation .

 = = = Home media = = =

 On July 26 , 2011 , FX obtained the rights to the network premiere of the film .

 Horrible Bosses was released on DVD and Blu @-@ ray Disc in the United States on October 11 , 2011 .

 The DVD contains the theatrical cut of the film and deleted scenes .

 The Blu @-@ ray Disc edition contains the Blu @-@ ray Disc , the DVD and a digital version of the film in a single pack .

 The Blu @-@ ray Disc contains deleted scenes and four featurettes :

 My Least Favorite Career , Surviving a Horrible Boss , Being Mean Is So Much Fun , and The Making of the Horrible Bosses Soundtrack .

 Both the theatrical and extended cuts are presented in the film 's original aspect ratio of 2 @.@ 39 : 1 with DTS @-@ HD Master Audio sound .

 included a code that allows the owner to access a version of the film via UltraViolet , a cloud storage service which allows streaming or downloading to a variety of devices .

 = = Sequel = =

 New Line was reported to be negotiating with Gordon to return as director , with Bateman , Day , and Sudeikis also expected to return to their roles .

 On February 27 , 2012 , it was confirmed that Goldstein and Daley were in the process of writing the new script .

 In March 2013 , Goldstein and Daley confirmed that they had submitted multiple draft scripts for the sequel , and that production had moved towards finalizing the budget .

 Later in the same month Bateman , Day , and Sudeikis were confirmed to be reprising their roles , with Foxx negotiating to return .

 The film will again be produced by Brett Ratner and Jay Stern .

 The pair had previously performed a rewrite on Goldstein 's and Daley 's sequel script .

 Filming had been scheduled to begin in summer 2013 , but began in November 2013 .

 Foxx , Jennifer Aniston , and Kevin Spacey reprised their roles , with Christoph Waltz and Chris Pine joining the cast .

 = 1985 Rajneeshee assassination plot =

 The 1985 Rajneeshee assassination plot was a conspiracy by a group of high @-@ ranking followers of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh ( later known as Osho ) to assassinate Charles Turner , the then @-@ United States Attorney for the District of Oregon .

 Rajneesh 's personal secretary and second @-@ in @-@ command , Ma Anand Sheela ( Sheela Silverman ) , assembled the group after Turner was appointed to investigate illegal activity at Rajneeshpuram .

 Turner investigated charges of immigration fraud and sham marriages , and later headed the federal prosecution of the 1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack in The Dalles , Oregon .

 Ann Phyllis McCarthy , fourth @-@ in @-@ command of Rajneeshpuram ; and co @-@ conspirators Alma Potter , Carol Matthews , Phyllis Caldwell and Richard Kevin Langford .

 The conspirators obtained false identification to purchase handguns out @-@ of @-@ state , stalked Turner , and planned to murder him near his workplace in Portland , Oregon .

 The assassination plot was never carried out and was only discovered later , as a result of the investigation by federal law enforcement into the bioterror attack in The Dalles and other illegal acts by the Rajneeshpuram leadership .

 Prosecution of the conspirators began in 1990 , when a federal grand jury brought indictments against several of the key players .

 Some had fled the country , and extradition proceedings against the perpetrators and subsequent prosecution and conviction was not completed for sixteen years .

 The final conspirator was convicted in 2006 , when Catherine Jane Stork agreed to return to the United States from Germany in order to be allowed to visit her ill son in Australia .

 Eight perpetrators received sentences ranging from five years probation to five years in federal prison and an additional member of the Rajneesh commune pleaded guilty to murder conspiracy .

 Rajneesh was never prosecuted in relation to the conspiracy , and left the United States after pleading guilty to immigration fraud and agreeing not to reenter the country without permission from the U.S. Attorney General .

 = = Planning = =

 = = = Hit list = = =

 Seven followers ( called Rajneeshees ) of charismatic leader Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh ( now known as Osho ) , were convicted of a 1985 conspiracy to assassinate Charles Turner , and an additional unindicted eighth member of the Rajneesh commune pleaded guilty to murder conspiracy .

 Prosecutors in the case stated that the perpetrators had planned to murder Turner after he was appointed to head an investigation into the group 's activities in Rajneeshpuram , Oregon .

 Turner 's investigation focused on sham marriages organized by the group , as well as other illegal activities including immigration fraud , and he later headed the federal prosecution relating to the 1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack in The Dalles , Oregon .

 Oregon Attorney General Dave Frohnmayer was also involved in investigations of the group , working alongside Turner .

 In May 1985 , Rajneesh 's personal secretary and second @-@ in @-@ command , Sheela Silverman ( Ma Anand Sheela ) , gathered the leader 's key followers and formed a group of conspirators in order to plan the assassination of Turner , as well as several dissidents among their organization .

 Sheela stated that Turner 's grand jury investigation " threatened the existence of the commune " , and exposed Rajneesh and several of his disciples to criminal prosecution .

 Sheela hoped that by murdering Turner they would be able to thwart the federal immigration investigation which could have resulted in deportation of Rajneeshee leaders .

 Three former leaders of the commune including Ma Anand Sheela , Dianne Yvonne Onang ( Ma Anand Puja ) , a registered nurse from the Philippines who managed the Rajneeshee medical corporation , and former treasurer of Rajneesh Foundation International and Catherine Jane Stork ( Ma Shanti Bhadra ) of Australia , put together a hit list which included U.S. Attorney Charles Turner and Oregon Attorney General David Frohnmayer .

 Hagan was in charge of the security force at Rajneeshpuram , ran the Rajneesh Investment Corporation , and supervised construction on the commune .

 Other conspirators in the assassination plot included Ann Phyllis McCarthy ( Ma Yoga Vidya ) , president of the Rajneesh commune , and Alma Potter ( Ma Dhyan Yogini ) , Ma Anand Sheela 's bodyguard and traveling companion .

 Potter was manager of the Hotel Rajneesh in Portland , Oregon , and a member of the commune 's security force .

 = = = Weapons = = =

 Catherine Jane Stork volunteered to be the follower who would actually murder Turner , and bought guns and silencers .

 Sally @-@ Anne Croft ( known by followers as Ma Prem Savita ) , an accountant and the group 's Chief Financial Officer , provided money for the purchase of weapons related to the plot .

 Ma Anand Sheela and three other Rajneesh followers traveled to New York in the spring of 1985 to acquire false identification .

 According to a federal indictment , the perpetrators of the assassination plot used a false birth certificate to purchase guns .

 Two members of the group then traveled to Texas to purchase handguns .

 Caldwell stated she and Catherine Jane Stork flew to Texas to purchase guns there .

 They purchased five guns in Texas , but encountered difficulty purchasing handguns in Texas with out @-@ of @-@ state identification and traveled to New Mexico instead .

 Caldwell said they called back to the commune but the women were instructed " not to come back without the guns " .

 In New Mexico , they obtained false identification , and purchased several pistols .

 Their intention was to purchase guns which were difficult to trace .

 Caldwell said it was easy to obtain guns in New Mexico : " we found it was pretty easy to buy guns .

 And then we were able to go to several different gun shops in Albuquerque with those two bits of identification and buy five different guns and bullets , " said Caldwell .

 They were able to obtain one Colt .38 @-@ caliber revolver , and four Ruger .357 @-@ caliber Security @-@ Six Magnum revolvers .

 The conspirators smuggled the guns into Oregon by packing them in luggage and putting the luggage on a Greyhound Lines bus .

 Caldwell said that she and Stork traveled by bus back to the Rajneesh commune so as to avoid airport metal detectors .

 = = = Surveillance = = =

 After obtaining guns the conspirators returned to Portland , Oregon .

 They rented out an apartment in Portland to serve as their base of operations for the assassination of Turner .

 Rajneesh follower Carol Matthews ( Ma Prem Samadhi ) used a fake name during the planning of the assassination plot , in an attempt to obtain the home address of Charles Turner .

 According to federal prosecutors Matthews obtained a college yearbook of Turner 's , and learned his car 's license plate number and his parking location .

 Court records state that Matthews and an unindicted co @-@ conspirator gave voter registration officials fake identities and told officials they were conducting " a voter survey on President Reagan 's economic plan " , in order to obtain Turner 's route number and post office box number .

 They then drove around Turner 's neighborhood and were able to find his home by locating a sign in front of his residence that said " Turner " .

 Members of the group of conspirators watched Turner 's office , home and car , and discussed methods to assassinate him , hoping that his death would hinder the efforts of the federal investigation into Rajneeshpuram .

 Their plan was to shoot Turner in the garage of the federal office building where he worked , in Portland , Oregon , but the conspirators also debated whether to murder Turner in downtown Portland or closer to his home .

 After spending multiple nights watching Turner 's house , the conspirators decided on the parking garage because they felt it would be too risky to murder him on the drive to or from work , or in front of his home .

 Turner had a reserved parking spot in a federal garage underneath Terry Schrunk Plaza in Portland , Oregon .

 The conspirators practiced different ways of murdering Turner .

 Informants later told law enforcement officials that the conspirators intended to hide out at an international network of Rajneesh communes if the plan was successful .

 = = Prosecutions = =

 = = = Investigation = = =

 On February 28 , 1985 , Congressman James H. Weaver gave a speech in the United States House of Representatives in which he asserted that the Rajneeshees were involved in the bioterror attack in Oregon .

 The assassination plot was uncovered by federal law enforcement as a result of the ensuing investigation into activities at Rajneeshpuram .

 Turner was never physically harmed , and had retired by 1995 .

 Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Weaver prosecuted the case ; the charges were first detailed at an October 1985 bond hearing in North Carolina after Rajneesh and his followers were arrested at an airport in Charlotte .

 Weaver said in court that followers of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh had plotted to assassinate Turner and Frohnmayer .

 Scuba divers searched the lake for two days but did not find the guns .

 Joseph Greene , a U.S. immigration agent , testified in court that FBI agents had learned of the assassination plot from a member of the organization who was in a witness protection program .

 Greene said that members involved in the assassination plot included Ma Anand Sheela , Dianne Yvonne Onang , and Alma Peralta .

 The assassination plot was investigated by the FBI and the Oregon State Police .

 Informants told law enforcement that Ma Anand Sheela hoped Turner 's death would prevent an Immigration and Naturalization Service investigation which she thought could lead to Rajneesh 's arrest and deportation from the United States .

 Weaver stated "

 These attempts to assassinate public officials were because they were presenting an immigration case that might result in imprisonment " of Rajneesh . "

 There were not simply plans , but at least one ( assassination ) attempt , " said Weaver at the hearing .

 A grand jury investigation led by Turner brought charges of " widespread immigration fraud " against members of Rajneeshpuram .

 Wiretapping crimes were discovered after Ma Anand Sheela had fled the commune in September 1985 .

 In December 1985 , 21 followers of Rajneesh were indicted on wiretapping charges .

 = = = Arrests and convictions = = =

 Chief criminal assistant U.S. attorney Baron C. Sheldahl was assigned to prosecute the charges of federal wiretapping , and a special team from the United States Department of Justice Criminal Division was tasked with prosecuting the murder conspiracy charges .

 Four of the perpetrators were arrested in September 1990 .

 Catherine Jane Stork and Richard Kevin Langford were arrested in West Germany , Ann Phyllis McCarthy was arrested in South Africa , and Susan Hagan was arrested in England .

 Peralta , who had served as Ma Anand Sheela 's bodyguard and confidante , agreed to testify against the other defendants in the murder conspiracy .

 Under the terms of Peralta 's plea agreement she received a sentence of two years in federal prison .

 At the time of her arrest , Matthews was found in possession of a false British passport , and had been traveling under the fake name of " Daphene Fosberry " . Indictments were brought against Ma Anand Sheela and six other co @-@ conspirators by a federal grand jury in November 1990 .

 Law enforcement officials from the United States Marshals Service traveled to Frankfurt , Germany and took custody of the Matthews and Langford at Rhine Main Airport .

 On April 15 , 1991 , Matthews and Langford appeared in federal court in Oregon , and both pleaded innocent to charges of conspiracy to commit murder and carrying out wiretapping .

 Langford agreed to testify against the other members of the murder conspiracy .

 Langford wrote on his plea agreement form :

 "

 In 1985 , meetings were held at the Rancho Rajneesh ... at which time the possible killing of the United States Attorney for Oregon was discussed .

 Langford told U.S. District Judge Malcom F. Marsh that he had suggested that guns for the murder conspiracy could be bought in Texas , instructed the conspiractors about silencers , took responsibility for the weapons while they were in the commune , and disposed of them when members of the murder conspiracy decided to flee the U.S. for Europe .

 In July 1991 , Carol Matthews entered a guilty plea and was convicted in federal court , she was sentenced to five years in prison .

 Catherine Jane Stork was convicted of the attempted murder of Rajneesh 's physician Dr. George Meredith ( Swami Devaraj ) in 1986 , and served almost three years in jail .

 After her release , agents from the FBI uncovered the plot to assassinate Turner , but Stork had already fled to Germany .

 She was indicted by a federal grand jury in 1990 .

 In 1991 , the German government refused to extradite Stork back to the United States .

 In June 1991 , U.S. prosecutors filed affidavits in the murder conspiracy case with the Higher Regional Court in Karlsruhe , Germany , as part of an attempt to extradite Catherin Jane Stork from Germany to the U.S .

 The affidavits stated that all of the members in the murder conspiracy plot also belonged to a group of Rajneesh followers at the Oregon commune known as " the 38 " , and were trained in " commando tactics using Uzi semiautomatic rifles and handguns " . David Berry Knapp ( known to Rajneesh followers as Swami Krishna Deva ) stated in an FBI affidavit that the murder conspiracy was motivated by Ma Anand Sheela 's " tremendous anger " towards Turner .

 Ma Anand Sheela served 29 months in a minimum security federal prison for charges related to assault , attempted murder , arson , wiretapping and the 1984 bioterror attack in The Dalles , and moved to Switzerland after her release from prison in 1988 .

 Switzerland declined an extradition request from the United States , and instead tried her in a Swiss court .

 Sheela was found guilty of " criminal acts preparatory to the commission of murder " in 1999 , and sentenced to time already served .

 Sally @-@ Anne Croft and Susan Hagan were extradited from Britain in 1994 , and were convicted by a jury decision on July 28 , 1995 for their roles in the assassination plot .

 They had unsuccessfully attempted to appeal their extradition from Britain to Home Secretary Michael Howard .

 During their trial the prosecution presented twenty @-@ nine witnesses , including former followers of Rajneesh who placed both women in planning meetings where they discussed murdering Turner .

 David Berry Knapp , the former mayor of Rajneeshpuram , testified for the government in the case and implicated Croft and Hagan in the assassination conspiracy .

 Ava Kay Avalos ( Ma Ava ) , a Rajneesh disciple , testified in the Croft case and stated that she had been part of the conspirators that plotted to assassinate Turner .

 In addition to Knapp and Avalos , co @-@ conspirators Richard Kevin Langford , Phyllis Caldwell , and Alma Peralta testified in the case pursuant to conditional plea or immunity agreements .

 Both women were sentenced to five years in prison .

 Croft and Hagan did not testify during their trial . "

 We hashed over everything – evidence , notes , evidence , notes .

 I think we did an absolutely fabulous job , " said one of the jurors .

 At the sentencing for Croft and Hagan , the federal Judge Malcolm Marsh described them as " people of obvious goodwill who had committed an extremely serious offense against the criminal justice system .

 " Prosecutor Tim Reardon called the conspiracy to commit assassination " a deadly serious crime aimed at the heart of the criminal justice system .

 McCarthy had served as fourth @-@ in @-@ command of Rajneeshpuram , and was known by Rajneesh 's followers as Ma Yoga Vidya .

 Turner called the one @-@ year prison sentence " laughable . "

 "

 Stork offered to turn herself in and return to the United States after learning of her son 's terminal brain tumor .

 Prior to sentencing , the court allowed her to travel to Australia to visit her son .

 In addition to charges of conspiracy to commit murder , Stork also pleaded guilty to the purchase of weapons in violation of federal firearms law .

 An Oregon judge sentenced her to five years probation , and three months time already served in a German jail .

 Turner thought she should have received a harsher sentence , and commented "

 No person has the right to do what I did .

 I 'm truly sorry . " Stork returned to Germany after her sentencing .

 In an affidavit , Timothy J. Reardon III , lead prosecutor for the United States Department of Justice in the case , stated Ma Anand Sheela had told members of the murder conspiracy that Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh had personally authorized the " necessary " murder of specific enemies of the Rajneesh commune .

 Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh paid a fine of US $ 400 @ , @ 000 , agreed to plead guilty to immigration fraud , and was deported from the United States .

 He agreed to leave the United States and not return unless given permission first from the United States Attorney General .

 "

 = = = Sentences = = =

 Conspiracy to assassinate a United States Attorney

 Wiretapping , and other charges , testified in assassination case

 = Die Another Day =

 The film follows Bond as he leads a mission to North Korea , during which he is betrayed and , after seemingly killing a rogue North Korean colonel , is captured and imprisoned .

 Fourteen months later , Bond is released as part of a prisoner exchange .

 Surmising that someone within the British government betrayed him , he attempts to earn redemption by tracking down his betrayer and killing a North Korean agent he believes was involved in his torture .

 Die Another Day , produced by Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli , and directed by Lee Tamahori , marked the James Bond franchise 's 40th anniversary .

 The series began in 1962 with Sean Connery starring as Bond in Dr. No . Die Another Day includes references to each of the preceding films .

 The film received mixed reviews .

 Some critics praised the work of Lee Tamahori , while others criticised the film 's heavy use of computer @-@ generated imagery , which they found unconvincing and a distraction from the film 's plot .

 = = Plot = =

 MI6 officer James Bond — agent 007 — infiltrates a North Korean military base , where Colonel Tan @-@ Sun Moon is illegally trading weapons for African blood diamonds .

 After Moon 's assistant Zao discovers that Bond is a British agent , the colonel attempts to kill Bond and a hovercraft chase ensues , which ends with Moon 's apparent death .

 Bond survives , but is captured by North Korean soldiers and imprisoned by the Colonel 's father , General Moon .

 After 14 months of captivity and torture , Bond is traded for Zao in a prisoner exchange .

 He is sedated and taken to meet M , who informs him that his status as a 00 Agent is suspended under suspicion of having leaked information under duress .

 After escaping from the custody of MI6 , he discovers that he is in Hong Kong , where he learns from a Chinese agent that Zao is in Cuba .

 In Havana Bond meets NSA agent Giacinta ' Jinx ' Johnson and follows her to a gene therapy clinic , where patients can have their appearances altered through DNA restructuring .

 Bond locates

 Zao inside the clinic and attempts to kill him , but Zao escapes .

 He leaves behind a pendant which leads Bond to a cache of diamonds , identified as conflict diamonds , but bearing the crest of the company owned by British billionaire Gustav Graves .

 At Blades Club in London Bond meets Graves , along with his assistant Miranda Frost , who is also an undercover MI6 agent .

 Shortly afterwards , M restores Bond 's Double @-@ 0 status and offers assistance in the investigation .

 At his ice palace in Iceland Graves unveils a new orbital mirror satellite , " Icarus " , which is able to focus solar energy on a small area and provide year @-@ round sunshine for crop development .

 During the night , Jinx infiltrates Graves ' command centre , but is captured by Graves and Zao .

 Bond rescues her and later discovers that Colonel Moon is still alive .

 Moon has used the gene therapy technology to change his appearance , assuming the identity of Gustav Graves .

 Bond confronts Graves , but Frost arrives to reveal herself as the traitor who betrayed Bond in North Korea , forcing 007 to escape from Graves ' facility .

 Bond then returns in his Aston Martin Vanquish to rescue Jinx , who has been captured once again .

 Zao pursues him in his own vehicle , both cars driving inside the rapidly melting ice palace .

 Bond kills

 Zao by shooting an ice chandelier onto him , and then revives Jinx after she has drowned .

 Bond and Jinx pursue Graves and Frost to the Korean peninsula and stow away on Graves ' cargo plane .

 Graves reveals his true identity to his father , and the purpose of the Icarus satellite : to cut a path through the Korean Demilitarized Zone with concentrated sunlight , allowing North Korean troops to invade South Korea and reunite the peninsula by force .

 Horrified , General Moon tries to stop the plan , but he is murdered by his own son .

 Bond attempts to shoot Graves but he is prevented by one of the soldiers on board .

 In their struggle , a gunshot pierces the fuselage , causing the plane to descend rapidly .

 Bond engages Graves in a fist fight , and Jinx attempts to regain control of the plane .

 Frost attacks Jinx , forcing her to defend herself in a sword duel .

 After the plane passes through the Icarus beam and is further damaged , Jinx kills Frost .

 Graves attempts to escape by parachute , but Bond opens the parachute , causing Graves to be pulled out of the plane and into one of its engines , killing him and disabling the Icarus beam .

 = = Cast = =

 Pierce Brosnan as James Bond 007 , an MI6 agent .

 Halle Berry as Giacinta ' Jinx ' Johnson , an NSA agent .

 Toby Stephens as Gustav Graves , a British entrepreneur , alter ego of Colonel Moon .

 Rosamund Pike as Miranda Frost , undercover MI6 agent and double agent .

 Rick Yune as Zao , a North Korean terrorist working for Moon .

 Judi Dench as M , the head of MI6 .

 Kenneth Tsang as General Moon , Colonel Moon 's father .

 John Cleese as Q , MI6 's quartermaster and armourer .

 Colin Salmon as Charles Robinson , M 's Deputy Chief of Staff .

 Ho Yi as the Hotel manager and Chinese special agent Mr. Chang .

 Rachel Grant as Peaceful Fountains of Desire , a Chinese agent working for Mr. Chang , undercover as a masseuse .

 Emilio Echevarría as Raoul , the manager of a Havana cigar factory , and a British sleeper .

 Michael Gorevoy as Vladimir Popov , Gustav Graves ' personal scientist

 Lawrence Makoare as Mr. Kil , one of Gustav Graves ' henchmen .

 Michael Madsen as Damian Falco , Jinx 's superior in the NSA .

 Vincent Wong as General Li

 Joaquin Martinez as an elderly cigar factory worker

 Deborah Moore as an airline hostess ( Moore is the daughter of former Bond Roger Moore )

 Madonna as Verity , a fencing instructor ( cameo )

 = = Production = =

 = = = Filming = = =

 Principal photography of Die Another Day began on 11 January 2002 at Pinewood studios .

 The film was shot primarily in the United Kingdom , Iceland , and Cádiz , Spain .

 Other locations included Pinewood Studios ' 007 Stage and Maui , Hawaii , in December 2001 .

 Laird Hamilton , Dave Kalama , and Darrick Doerner performed the pre @-@ title surfing scene at the surf break known as Jaws in Peʻahi , Maui , while the shore shots were taken near Cádiz and Newquay , Cornwall .

 The scenes involving the Cuban locations of Havana and the fictional Isla de Los Organos were filmed at La Caleta , Spain .

 The scenes featuring Berry in a bikini were shot in Cádiz .

 Berry was injured during filming when debris from a smoke grenade flew into her eye .

 The debris was removed in a 30 @-@ minute operation .

 Gadgets and other props from every previous Bond film and stored in Eon Productions ' archives appear in Q 's warehouse in the London Underground .

 Examples include the jetpack in Thunderball and Rosa Klebb 's poison @-@ tipped shoe in From Russia with Love .

 Svalbard , Norway and Jökulsárlón , Iceland were used for the car chase on the ice with additional scenes filmed at Jostedalsbreen National Park , Norway and RAF Little Rissington , Gloucestershire ; Manston Airport in Kent was used for the scenes involving the Antonov cargo plane scenes .

 The scene in which Bond surfs the wave created by Icarus when Graves was attempting to kill Bond was shot on the blue screen .

 The waves , along with all the glaciers in the scene are computer @-@ generated .

 Although the base is portrayed in the film as a US base , all the aircraft and personnel in the scene are British in real life .

 The good guys get in unobserved , thanks to a fast cruise , good glide performance , and minimal radar signature .

 = = = Music = = =

 The soundtrack was composed by David Arnold and released on Warner Bros .

 Records .

 He again made use of electronic rhythm elements in his score , and included two of the new themes created for The World Is Not Enough .

 The first , originally used as Renard 's theme , is heard during the mammoth " Antonov " cue on the recording , and is written for piano .

 The second new theme , used in the " Christmas in Turkey " track of The World Is Not Enough , is reused in the " Going Down Together " track .

 The concept of the title sequence is to represent Bond trying to survive 14 months of torture at the hands of the North Koreans .

 = = Marketing tie @-@ ins = =

 MGM and Eon Productions granted Mattel the license to sell a line of Barbie dolls based around the franchise .

 Lindy Hemming created the dress , which is slashed to the thigh to reveal a telephone strapped to Barbie 's leg .

 The doll was sold in a gift set , with Barbie 's boyfriend Ken posing as Bond in a tuxedo designed by the Italian fashion house Brioni .

 Revlon also collaborated with the makers of Die Another Day to create a cosmetics line based around the character Jinx .

 The product names were loaded with puns and innuendo , with shades and textures ranging from the " warm " to " cool and frosted " .

 = = Release and reception = =

 Die Another Day had its world premiere on 18 November 2002 at the Royal Albert Hall in London .

 Proceeds from the première , about £ 500 @ , @ 000 , were donated to the Cinema and Television Benevolent Fund of which the Queen is patron .

 On the first day , ticket sales reached £ 1 @.@ 2 million .

 It earned $ 432 million worldwide , becoming the sixth highest grossing film of 2002 .

 Die Another Day became a controversial subject in eastern Asia .

 The North Korean government disliked the portrayal of their state as brutal and war @-@ hungry .

 The South Koreans boycotted 145 theatres where it was released on 31 December 2002 , as they were offended by the scene in which an American officer issues orders to the South Korean army in the defence of their homeland , and by a lovemaking scene near a statue of the Buddha .

 The Washington Post reported growing resentment in the nation towards the United States .

 The amount of product placement in the film was a point of criticism , specifically from various news outlets such as the BBC , Time and Reuters who all used the pun " Buy Another Day " .

 Reportedly 20 companies , paying $ 70 million , had their products featured in the film , a record at the time , although USA Today reported that number to be as high as $ 100 million .

 Rotten Tomatoes listed Die Another Day with a 58 % rating .

 Metacritic gave the film a 56 out of 100 rating , representing " mixed or average reviews .

 " Michael Dequina of Film Threat praised the film as the best of the series to star Pierce Brosnan and " the most satisfying installment of the franchise in recent memory .

 "

 Of the action sequences , he said , " Die Another Day is an exercise in loud explosions and excruciatingly bad special effects .

 The CGI work in this movie is an order of magnitude worse than anything I have seen in a major motion picture .

 Coupled with lousy production design , Die Another Day looks like it was done on the cheap .

 Invisible cars and dodgy CGI footage ?

 Please ! "

 = = Novelisation = =

 Fan reaction to it was above average .

 After its publication Benson retired as the official James Bond novelist and a new series featuring the secret agent 's adventures as a teenager , by Charlie Higson , was launched in 2005 .

 = = Cancelled spin @-@ off = =

 Speculation arose in 2003 of a spin @-@ off film concentrating on Jinx , which was scheduled for a November / December 2004 release .

 It was originally reported that MGM was keen to set up a film series that would be a " winter olympics " alternative to ' James Bond ' .

 MGM were keen to instead move on with the next film , Casino Royale .

 = Rakie Ayola =

 She first rose to prominence in the lead role of the 1993 Jeanette Winterson screenplay Great Moments in Aviation .

 Ayola has worked in theatre , film and television , appearing in a number of Shakespearean theatrical performances , Hollywood films

 The i Inside and Sahara , and British television shows including Soldier Soldier , EastEnders , Sea of Souls and Doctor Who .

 She appeared in Holby City from its eighth to eleventh series , from 2006 to 2008 , and in 2009 starred in the CBBC musical comedy My Almost Famous Family .

 Ayola is an advocate of increased ethnic representation in the entertainment industry , and in 2001 founded her own production company , producing the short film Persephone 's Playground for the Cannes film festival in order to further her campaign .

 She is married to fellow actor Adam Smethurst , with whom she has two daughters .

 = = Early life = =

 Ayola was born in Cardiff , Wales in May 1968 , to a Sierra Leonean mother and a Nigerian father .

 She was raised by her mother 's cousin and his wife in Ely , Cardiff .

 Ayola 's heritage means she is Yoruba by descent , although she does not speak the language .

 She left high school before sitting her A Levels in order to pursue her ambition of becoming an actress .

 She explains : " I 've always wanted to act .

 She then went on to attend the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama , studying for a three @-@ year acting diploma .

 Ayola has stated that it was Barbra Streisand 's performance in Hello , Dolly ! that inspired her to act as a child , though credits her adoptive mother with encouraging her to act professionally .

 Ayola 's first job was selling jeans on Bessemer Road Market in Cardiff .

 = = Career = =

 Ayola began her career in the theatre , performing in a number of Shakespearean plays including Twelfth Night , A Midsummer Night 's Dream , The Tempest , The Merchant of Venice and Macbeth .

 She states of this : " Shakespeare keeps coming my way .

 She explains : "

 Variety magazine 's David Rooney said of her performance :

 "

 Her subsequent film credits are romantic comedy The Secret Laughter of Women , set in Nigeria and starring Colin Firth , thriller

 The i Inside , filmed in Sully Hospital , Cardiff , and starring Ryan Phillippe , and Sahara , filmed in Morocco whilst Ayola was pregnant with her first child , starring Penélope Cruz .

 Ayola says of her film career : " I really like doing film [ but ]

 "

 Ayola credits her chemistry with co @-@ star Akim Mogaji , who played her on @-@ screen husband Luke Roberts , for winning her her audition .

 She went on to appear in Gone With the Wind sequel Scarlett , and star in Welsh soap opera Tiger Bay .

 She has spoken critically of the way the BBC treated the soap , moving it around the schedules and declining to commission a second series .

 In 1996 , Ayola appeared at the National Theatre in Helen Edmundson 's adaptation of Leo Tolstoy 's War and Peace .

 In 2001 , she became a presenter of the BBC Wales arts programme Double Yellow , alongside poet Owen Sheers and performance artist Mark Rees .

 She posed nude but for a pair of yellow rubber gloves to promote the show 's launch , and was highly critical of the BBC when the show was cancelled midway through its second series .

 She has since concluded that " the kind of audience they would like to bring in with shows like Double Yellow aren 't really into watching TV " , but at the time was outspoken against the show 's cancellation , stating :

 In 2009 , Ayola starred in the CBBC musical comedy My Almost Famous Family .

 She stated : "

 I also like the fact that there were a lot of politically @-@ correct boxes being ticked , but the writers and producer haven 't been restrained by that . "

 We have a mix of boys and girls , one character who 's mixed @-@ raced and deaf – but we 're not going to be restrained by any of that .

 We 're not going to tiptoe around Martha 's disability or anything .

 ' I liked that .

 It wasn 't some sort of reverential hands @-@ off approach to what we 're presenting . "

 She has also been cast in the film Dredd .

 = = = Holby City = = =

 From 7 February 2006 to 9 December 2008 , Ayola starred in BBC medical drama Holby City as nurse Kyla Tyson .

 She had previously appeared in Holby City 's sister show Casualty , and had made an appearance in Holby City 's fifth series as patient Marianne Lawson .

 She was approached about returning to the show in a more permanent role by BBC casting director Julie Harkin .

 It would be nice just to stay put for a while .

 Ayola signed a three @-@ year contract to play Kyla , and described herself as " very similar " to her character , speaking positively about her working relationship with co @-@ stars Jaye Jacobs and Sharon D. Clarke , as well as the " dream " storylines her character was given .

 She said of the show :

 " I really love Holby and I 'm surprised how much .

 What thrills me about Holby is that you get back what you put in .

 For me it 's about more than turning up and saying the lines .

 It 's about understanding it and trying to make it better .

 That 's actually a lot of fun .

 I surprise myself sometimes because after two and a half years sometimes I see friends on the side of a poster and I think , ' do I want to do something else ?

 "

 I 'm very sorry to have to let her go . "

 Throughout her career , Ayola has been outspoken on the subject of racial discrimination in the entertainment industry .

 Describing her motivation , she states : " I am not an overtly political person .

 I just want fairness " .

 Ayola believes that black actors receive less recognition than their white counterparts , explaining ; "

 I am very aware of where the glass ceiling is and it 's still very low and expectations are still very low " .

 In 2001 , Ayola founded a production company and directed a short film entitled Persephone 's Playground .

 She presented the film at the Cannes film festival , using it as part of her campaign for increased black representation in theatre , films and television .

 In 2008 , Ayola offered her support to the Action for Southern Africa campaign Dignity !

 Period , aiming to provide affordable sanitary protection to Zimbabwean women .

 = = = Awards = = =

 Ayola was nominated and shortlisted for the ' Female Performance in TV ' award in the 2006 Screen Nation Awards , for her role as Kyla Tyson in Holby City .

 She received Honourable Mention for the same role the following year , and was shortlisted again in 2008 .

 In 2005 , Wales

 Online voted Ayola the 29th sexiest woman in Wales , saying of her : "

 One of our favourite thesps , she 's black , beautiful and the term " yummy mummy " should have been made for her . "

 Ayola placed 17th in the awards in 2009 .

 = = Personal life = =

 Ayola describes herself as " optimistic , cynical , lazy , naive [ and ] honest " .

 She spends her free time " watching television , the theatre , cinema , concerts , indoor wall climbing [ and ] keeping fit [ with ] yoga [ and ] aerobics " .

 She has a collection of Troll dolls which she keeps under her bath .

 Ayola has an interest in travel , and has visited Peru and Kenya among other destinations .

 Ayola often speaks of her pride in her Welsh upbringing , describing herself as " an Ely girl through and through " .

 She was made a Fellow of the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama in 2003 .

 During a 1998 production of Hamlet , Ayola met her future husband , fellow actor Adam Smethurst – son of Love Thy Neighbour star Jack Smethurst .

 They met again two years later , during a production of Twelfth Night , and went on to become a couple .

 Their second daughter was born in January 2009 .

 = = Filmography = =

 = = = Film roles = = =

 = = = Television roles = = =

